Frequently Asked Questions

Can’t find an answer to your question below? Contact us at commencement@andrew.cmu.edu.

Commencement 2024

What is the difference between a diploma ceremony and the main commencement ceremony?

All graduates (bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degree candidates) will be celebrated at the main commencement ceremony on Sunday, May 12. The ceremony will include a procession of graduates, conferral of degrees, remarks from the president, keynote speaker, student speaker and academic deans, in addition to recognition of the honorary degree recipients.

In addition to the main commencement ceremony, each college/school/department will host a diploma ceremony to recognize their graduating students. Diploma ceremonies will be held over the course of the weekend (Friday, May 10–Sunday, May 12) and include the presentation of diplomas to graduates, hooding of doctoral candidates and remarks from their college/school/department leadership.

Are there any restrictions for guests?

Guests are welcome to attend commencement exercises. There is no limit to the number of guests for the main commencement ceremony and tickets are not needed. 

There is no limit to the number of guests for the President’s Reception for Doctoral Candidates and tickets are not needed. However, we ask that all doctoral graduates register the number of guests they are planning to bring to the reception so that we can prepare accordingly. 

Please note that some diploma ceremonies will limit guests based on venue capacity. 

My family and friends aren’t able to travel to Pittsburgh for commencement weekend; will the events be livestreamed?

We know how important it is to share this milestone with families near and far. Sunday’s Commencement Ceremony will be livestreamed. Diploma ceremonies will be also be live-streamed to the extent possible.

Are drones or unmanned aircraft systems permitted to be operated as part of commencement?

The operation of drones is prohibited prior to, during and after the commencement ceremony on May 12. For more information about the Drone Safety Program, click here.