2024 Main Commencement Ceremony

-   Bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degree candidates and their guests are invited to join the main commencement ceremony on Sunday, May 12, for the conferral of all degrees.
-   The main ceremony will include remarks from the president, keynote speaker, student speaker and academic deans, in addition to recognition of the honorary degree recipients.
-   There is no limit on number of guests who can attend the main commencement ceremony and tickets are not needed.
-   The ceremony will take place on CMU’s campus beginning at 10 a.m. and will be approximately 1.5 hours long. All guests must be seated by 9:15 a.m. for the start of the student procession. Access to guest seating will be restricted once the student procession begins.

Diploma Ceremonies

-   In addition to the main commencement ceremony, each college/school/department will host a diploma ceremony to recognize all graduating students. Diploma ceremonies will be held over the course of the weekend (Friday, May 10–Sunday, May 12).
-   Diploma ceremonies will include the presentation of diplomas to graduates, hooding of doctoral candidates and remarks from their college/school/department leadership. Each ceremony is organized and customized by their college/school/department.
-   Diploma ceremonies will take place both on and off campus. Locations and times for diploma ceremonies will be provided soon.
-   Diploma ceremonies typically include a reception and the length of time for each ceremony varies based on the number of graduates.

More details on the weekend schedule, including a diploma ceremony schedule, will be provided in the coming weeks.

Thursday, May 9

Phi Beta Kappa Initiation Ceremony
Ceremony: 2–3 p.m.
_McConomy Auditorium, Cohon University Center
_Reception: 3–4 p.m.
Connan Room, Cohon University Center

Contact:Joseph Devine
jd0x@andrew.cmu.edu 

Joanne Ursenbach
joanneu@andrew.cmu.edu 

President’s Graduates Toast (bachelor’s students)
3:30–4:30 p.m.
_Location TBD
_Registration required. Invitation, along with registration details, will be sent in late April.

First Gen Graduation Recognition
Reception: 5-5:30 p.m.
Alumni Concert Hall, _College of Fine Arts
_Ceremony: 5:30-6:30p.m.
Kresge Theater, College of Fine Arts

Contact:
M. Shernell Smith
mssmith@andrew.cmu.edu 

Sam Colavecchio
scolavec@andrew.cmu.edu 
412-268-7733

Friday, May 10

Diploma Ceremonies
Various times

Senior Leadership Recognition Ceremony
4–5:30 p.m.
Wiegand Gym, Cohon University Center
Undergraduate students and their guests by invitation only. This ceremony recognizes nominated seniors who have reflected upon their specific leadership contributions during their time at CMU.

Saturday, May 11

Diploma Ceremonies
Various times

Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion Ceremony
_Noon–2:30 p.m.
Simmons Auditorium, Tepper Building_

Contact:
M. Shernell Smith
mssmith@andrew.cmu.edu 

Sam Colavecchio
scolavec@andrew.cmu.edu 

Naval ROTC Commissioning
Ceremony: 1:30-2:30 p.m.
_Auditorium, Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall & Museum *__4141 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213_

Contact:
Mike Dankomdanko@andrew.cmu.edu 

The President’s Reception in honor of CMU’s Doctoral Candidates
4–6 p.m.
Tepper Building Atrium

Sunday, May 12

Gesling Stadium opens to guests
8 a.m.

Robing and procession for graduates
9–10 a.m.
Various locations across campus

Student procession begins9:15 a.m.
All guests in stadium must be seated. Access to guest seating will be restricted once the procession begins.

Commencement Ceremony
10–11:30 a.m._Gesling Stadium, CMU’s campus_

Diploma Ceremonies
Various times