Handbook-MSAII-2022-2023
10 Degree Requirements 
MSAII students are expected to complete their degree requirements within five consecutive semesters, 
fall, spring, summer internship, second fall, second spring.  Under exceptional conditions, such as for 
medical reasons, a student may be granted a leave of absence.  See Section 11.1.10, below.   Upon 
completion of the graduate program degree requirements, the degree will be certified by the student’s 
academic program in the semester in which the student completes the requirements . 
10.1 Course Grade and GPA Requirements   
To receive the M.S. degree, all students  must take and successfully complete at least 195 units 
of coursework . All required Core Courses must be completed with a grade of B or better . For 
the Knowledge Area Courses, students must maintain a B average .  No grade lower than C (or 
Pass in the case of Pass/No Pass courses) shall be used for credit applied toward graduation.  
Under SCS policy, only a grade of C or higher will be regarded as a Pass in a Pass/No Pass 
course.  No undergraduate courses count toward the 195-unit requirement. 
All Core courses are organized in sequence, and must be taken in the following order: 
 Artificial Intelligence and Future Markets (11-651) – No prerequisite. 
 AI Engineering (11-695) – Prerequisite is the completion of 11-651 with a grade of “B” or 
better. 
 LTI Practicum (11-935) – Three credit units for completing the required Internship. 
 AI Innovation (11-654) – Prerequisite is the completion of 11- 695 with a grade of “B” or 
better. 
 Capstone (11-699) – Prerequisite is the completion of 11-654 with a grade of “B” or better.  
Students are required to repeat any required course that they have completed with a grade less 
than the required minimum, preferably at the next offering. (Please note that Core courses and 
Knowledge courses are only offered once per year.) Students will be  allowed to retake a required 
course only once.  If a student fails in the second attempt, he or she will be dropped from the 
MSAII program.    
If a student fails an elective course, she or he will need to repeat the same or take a substitute 
course (equivalent course approved by the Director).    
All grades count towards the program QPA, except for repeated courses, in which case the final 
grade replaces the previous grade.  Courses taken pass/no pass do not affect the student’s QPA.  
However, ONLY ELECTIVE COURSES MAY BE  TAKEN PASS/NO PASS, unless the Provost 
directs to the contrary.  Students who do not achieve the required minimum grade in a required 
course, who elect to take an “i ncomplete” in a required course, or whose cumulative grade point 
average is below a B (3.0), will be placed on academ ic probation. Students on probation are not 
eligible to graduate. Students who are placed on academic probation shall receive written  
notice of this finding, including a list of meas ures that need to be tak en to be removed from 
 academic probation. A student on academic pr obation for two consecutive semesters may be 
dropped from the program.    
The MSAII program conducts an academic progress re view at the conclusion of each semester in 
order to monitor individual student progress towa rd graduation. Should a student’s effort fall 
below the acceptable academic performance and/or fail to meet the sta ndards established by the 
MSAII program and Carnegie Mellon Universit y, the student may be dismissed from the 
program. 
Should a student’s overall QPA drop below 3.0 d uring any given semester, he/she will be placed 
on academic probation for the following semester and will be required to improve his/her grades 
to no less than overall 3.0 QPA d uring that period. Failure to im prove to an overall 3.0 QPA or 
better the following semester may result in termin ation from the program. In addition, a student 
who violates policies established by Carnegie  Mellon University may be dismissed from the 
program. 
After each academic progress revi ew, a student may receive one or  more letters, indicating the 
result of the review. Warning letters  are issued for the following cases: 
1) Overall QPA below 3.0 (Academic probation) 
2) Semester QPA is below 3.0 
3) Grade below B in a Core course 
4) Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) according to  the university policies.  This includes any 
AIV letter received in during the summer preceding matriculation. 
A student may be terminated from the program under any of the following circumstances: 
a) A student who has received two Academic  Integrity Violation (AIV) letters will  be 
terminated.  There are no exceptions  and the Program Director has no discretion over 
such a termination as it is an LTI policy. 
b) A student who has received one Academ ic Integrity Violation (AIV) letter may  be 
terminated by the Program Director if the vi olation is so serious that the student cannot 
be allowed to remain in the MSAII Program. 
c) A student has received three warning letter s of any type from the MSAII program. 
d) A student has been found to have violated a University Policy for which termination is 
provided. 
An AIV letter or violation of University Poli cy may be appealed pursuant to CMU appeal 
procedures.  See Section 4.5.2, be low.  However, a decision to te rminate a student after appeal 
because of conditions a), b), c) or d) is not appealable. 
10.2 Course Requirements  
14 
 1) Summer Before Entrance  
Admitted students are required to take, pa y for, and pass 15-513 Introduction to 
Computer Systems OR 11-637 Foundations of Computational Data Science during the 
summer prior to their arrival at Carnegie Mellon.  The units earned in these courses are 
not counted toward the total number of units required for graduation.  These courses 
may be taken pass/no pass, but cannot be dr opped.  A student who drops either course 
during the summer will not be permitted to begin the degree program in the fall, but 
must retake one of the courses the following summer.   The MSAII course offerings are 
available at msaii.cs.cmu.edu/curriculum .  The university’s complete Schedule of 
Classes can be found at https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/o pen/SOC/SOCServlet/search . 
Students are then required to take and su ccessfully complete the courses below: 
2) The Core Courses (87 units) - Must be taken in THIS SEQUENCE: 
 
11-651 – AI & Future Markets – (12 units). First  Fall semester.   Only open to MSAII.  
 17-762 – Law of Computer Technolo gy (12 units). First Fall semester 
 
11-695 – AI Engineering (12 un its). First Spring semester 
  11-935 – LTI Practicum (3 units).  Summer Internship  11-654 – AI Innovation (12 units). Seco nd Fall semester.  Only open to MSAII. 
 11-699 – Capstone Project (36 units). Second Spring  semester.  Only open  to MSAII.     
 
3) The Knowledge Area Courses (72 units):  
 
11-601, Coding Bootcamp (12 un its).  First fall semester. 
 
10-601, Machine Learning (12 units), First fall semester. (Normally    
      11-691, Math for Machine Learni ng, which is not being offered in Fall 2022.) 
 10-605, Machine Learning with Large Data sets (12 units).  First spring semester. 
 
11-611, Natural Language Processing (12 units).  Second fall semester. 
 11-785, Deep Learning (12 unit s).  Second spring semester. 
 One more 12-unit AI, ML or NLP course of the student’s choice (with approval of the 
Program Director) 
In the event that a course is not available, a course covering equivalent material with a 
similar degree of difficulty may be substitut ed with the permission of the Director. If a 
15 
 student has already taken an equivalent course and shows proficiency in the subject 
area, a more advanced course in the area may be taken in place of these required 
courses with permission of the Director.  Graduate students cannot receive credit for 
undergraduate courses.       
 
4) Electives:  
A minimum of 36 units of SCS courses must be taken.  It is recommended to take one 
elective in the first fall semester, one or tw o in the first spring semester, one or two in 
the second fall semester and zero or one in the second spring semester.  The courses 
below are automatically approved.  A stud ent who wants to take a course not listed 
must obtain approval of the Director prior to  registering.  In general, the Director will 
approve any graduate SCS course of not more than  12 units.  It is also possible to seek 
approval for courses in other Colleges at  CMU.  However, those courses must be 
rationally related to an AI career in order to be approved as electives.  
11-636 MSAII Independent Study (may be tak en ONCE as an electi ve unless permission 
of the Director is obtained) 
11-641 Machine Learning for Text Mining 
11-642 Search Engines 11-676 Big Data Analytics 11-747 Neural Networks for NLP 
11-755 Machine Learning for Signal Processing 
11-777 Advanced Multimodal Machine Learning 11-791 Design of Intelligent Information Systems 10-605 Machine Learning with Large Datasets 10-608 Conversational Machine Learning 
10-702 Statistical Machine Learning 
15-624 Foundations of Cyber-Physical Systems 15-645 Database Systems 15-681 AI: Representation and Problem Solving 
15-688 Practical Data Science 
16-720 Computer Vision 16-725 Medical Image Analysis 16-772 Sensing and Sensors 16-824 Visual Learning and Recognition 
17-637 Web Application Development 
17-639 Management of Software Development 17-652 Methods: Deciding What to Design 17-653 Managing Software Development 
17-766 Software Engineering for Startups 
 02-604 Fundamentals of Bioinformatics 
02-718 Computational Medicine  
Independent study (11-636) is encouraged.  The process is that you find a faculty 
member willing to supervise your independent study,  assign a number of credits not to 
exceed 12, and assign a grade at the end of the study.  Th e faculty member must send 
an email to the Director indicating such willingness.  You can then register for 11-636. 
 
Courses carrying more than 12 units in a semester are NOT APPROVED as electives.  
 Students may take athletics or music or theatrical performance courses that do not 
require work outside of class times.  However, such courses will NOT count toward 
the 195 units required for graduation. 
10.2.1  Incomplete Grades  
Carnegie Mellon University students are expect ed to complete a course during the academic 
semester in which the course was taken. However, if the instructor agrees, a grade of “I” 
(incomplete) may be given when a student has been unable to complete the work of a course. 
However, the work completed up to that date must be of passing quality and the grade of 
incomplete provides no undue advantage to that student over other students.  
By awarding an “I” grade, an instructor must specify the requirements for the completion of the 
work and designate a default letter grade in the event that the student fails to complete the 
remaining work.  
Students must complete the required course work  by no later than the end of the following 
academic semester or sooner if  required by the instructor.  
The instructor must record the permanent course grade by the last day of the examination 
period of the following semester , or the Registrar will automatically assign the default grade.  
If further work has not been completed after one semester and a default grade is rendered, the 
default grade will become the grade of record. 
10.2.2  Change of grades and missing grades  
If a grade has been assigned in error, it can be  changed to a different  permanent grade. The 
procedure for changing a grade is as follows: 
 Discuss the matter with the course instructor;  provide evidence th at the grade issued was 
not the grade earned. 
  If the instructor agrees, the student should contact the prog ram administrator to process 
a Change of Grade Form in order to correct the grade that was issued in error. Generally, 
the instructor is the final authority for a course grade. 
 If a grade has not been assigned, please notify  the course instructor for the completion of 
a Missing Grade Form. 
10.2.3  Transferring to another program  
A student may withdraw from the MSAII program at any time.  If any requirement for the 
MSAII degree has not been met, the degree will  not be awarded.  Occasionally, students are 
accepted into a different degree program at CMU and transfer to that program.  International 
students who do this should check with OIE to ensure that their visa is not jeopardized. 
10.2.4  Intellectual Property Policy 
See http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/IntellProp.html . 
10.2.5  Teaching Requirements 
None.  Students who wish to do  so may apply for teaching assist ant positions for courses in 
which they have excelled.  It is important to ensure that the student’s academic responsibilities 
are not adversely impacted by a TAship, and vice-versa. 
10.3 Advising   
10.3.1  Student Advising  
Every MSAII student will be assigned an advisor,  normally the Program Director.  Before the 
course registration period each semester, students  must meet with their advisor to discuss their 
course selection. New students wi ll be given instructions to regist er for their classes during the 
summer prior to entrance.    
10.3.2  Monitoring Progress  
The advisor meets with the student at least twice a year, providing guidance and monitoring the 
student’s overall progress.   
10.3.3  Degree Certification  
Students who graduate having met all the requirements for the degree will receive a diploma 
stating that they have received a “Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation.” 
18 
 10.4 Internship   
Students must obtain an internship during the summer between the first and second years of the 
program.  This is a requirement.  An internship will provide students with the opportunity to 
apply the knowledge and technical skills learned during the first year of the program, to gain 
insight into AI and future market needs to further their experience and develop a strong context 
for the second-year concentration coursework.  Normally the internship wi ll be with an outside 
company.  In some circumstances, a student who is doing research with  a CMU faculty member 
during the summer may request that such  research qualify as an internship. 
The internship must involve at least two months of full-time work  and must relate to computer 
software development and is preferably AI-related. 
Students are encouraged to intern with an organization that corresponds to their individual area 
of interest and career goals.   
All students who secure summer internships must register for three units in 11-935 (LTI 
Practicum).  This course can be taken once du ring the program with Pass/Fail and will be 
counted toward graduation units.  International students must apply for Curricular Practical 
Training (CPT) for the internship by contacting the Office of International Education (OIE).  To 
obtain CPT, students need an offer letter spelling  out employment dates, work hours, and wages 
or stipend.  It is the student’s responsibility in 11-935 to give a presentation during the semester 
following the internship to a ll current MSAII students detailing the student’s internship 
experience. 
International students who are interested in working in  the U.S after graduation are required to 
consult with the Office of International Education (OIE) which oversees the OPT registration.  
Note: OPT must only be used after students have completed their degree at Carnegie Mellon.  
NOTE : Students are personally responsible for securing a suitable internship.  The Career and 
Professional Development Center will assist in their search for counseling, workshops, and 
internship opportunity listings in Handshake .  We strongly suggest students begin the 
internship search beginning in the Fall of your first year. So me internship opportunities have 
application deadlines in the Fall,  so by starting your search early, you won't miss out on these 
internships.  The Career and Professional Development Center will assist students with the 
internship search, but does not match students with employers; obtaining an internship is the 
students’ responsibility.   
The following steps are recommended to ensure a successful internship outcome.  Many of the 
events below have been modified due to COVID. 
September/October  
 Meet with your advisor to discuss your interests and plan your internship search.  
19 
  Review the internships of previous students. We also encourage you to speak informally 
with second-year students who can offer firs t-hand information about their internships.  
 Attend the Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) at Carnegie Mellon for exposure 
to potential employers for internships.   
November/December  
 Begin researching organizations and internship opportunities. Pay close attention to 
organizations that have established internship programs and their deadlines.  
 Attend workshops to perfect your resume, hone your interviewing skills, and gain 
knowledge about the intern ship search process.  
January/February  
 At this point, you should have a “short list” of organizations at which you would like to 
intern. This list can include organizations that have established internship programs as 
well as those that interest you without formal internship programs. 
 Update your resume with relevant academic projects, coursework, etc. 
 Begin utilizing your network for internship leads as well as checking organization’s 
websites for internships.  
 Make contact with employers, sending resume s and applications, and initiating internship 
interviews in person  or by phone.  
 Attend Network Nights and talk to alumni  about internship opportunities in their 
organization. They are an excellent resource for learning more about a particular 
organization, career field or employment oppo rtunity. You can find alumni in the Alumni 
Directory, Alumni Career Advisor Networ k, and Carnegie Mellon Alumni LinkedIn 
Network.  
March/April  
 At this point, you should ha ve secured an internship or be  interviewing with various 
organizations.  
 Prepare a backup plan if your first ch oices of internships do not work out. 
 Attend relevant Network Nights and Career Fairs at Carnegie Mellon.  
 If you are an F-1 Visa student, you must apply for CPT.  
 MSAII students should enroll in 11-935 for three units. You will not have to pay tuition for 
this course.   
10.5 Employment Eligibility Verification  
If you are receiving compensation or a stipend from  CMU, if you are going to be a TA or you are 
planning to seek a position with CMU, then Employment Eligibility Verification is required.  
Form I-9 must be completed within 3 business days of beginning work for any type of 
compensation (stipend or employment). Additional details are highlighted below. 
 To ensure compliance with federal law, Carnegie Mellon University maintains the Employment 
Eligibility Verification (I-9) Policy [pdf]  covering the university’s I- 9 and E-Verify requirements:  
Every individual receiving a stipend from CMU or  employed by CMU must comply with the I-9 
Policy by completing the Form I-9 within three business days following the first day of stipend 
start date/employment.  
Individuals who expect to work  on a federally funded project are further responsible for 
submitting an E-Verify Processing Request Form to the Office of Human Resources.  
For more information, please see CMU’s Guidance for Completing the Form I-9 and E-Verify 
Requirements at CMU [pdf] , or visit the Human Resources Service website to learn more about 
Form I-9 and E-Verify  and to schedule an appointment to  complete the Form I-9.  
10.6 MSAII Orientation  
Each Fall semester, the MSAII program provides a program orientation to help new students 
learn about the program. All new students are required to attend them and treat them seriously 
because they explain the program sequence, it s Core and Knowledge courses requirements and 
how students will meet the program learning outcomes.  
10.7 End of Semester Evaluation 
The MSAII program conducts an academic progress re view at the conclusion of each semester in 
order to monitor individual student progress towards graduation. Should a student’s effort fall 
below the acceptable level of academic performance and/or fail to meet the standards 
established by the MSAII program, the stud ent may be dismissed from the program. 
After each academic progress review, a student may receive one or  more letters, indicating the 
result of the review. See Section 3.1, Course Grade and GPA Requirements, above. 
At the end of the semester, the faculty evaluate s each student's academic progress. If a student 
seems to be having trouble, the faculty determines whether it believes that the student can 
finish the degree, and if  so, what needs to be accomplished to get back on track. This type of 
letter should be considered a serious warning. It is not a permanent "black mark" on the 
student's record; if the student begins making satisfactory progress again, there is no official 
record of the letter in the student's transcript. 
In the most serious cases, the faculty gives the stud ent a letter that specifies a list of conditions 
that the student must satisfy by specific deadlines . Failure to meet all of the specified conditions 
may result in the student's te rmination from the program. 
 10.8 Enrollment Verification 
Enrollment Services is the only University office that can provide an official letter of enrollment, 
official transcript, and enrollment verification.  Enrollment verification can be requested online 
through The HUB at www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/student-records/transcripts/ .  
10.9 University Policies on Grades and Grading 
10.9.1  University Policy on Grades 
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-an d-student-life/grading.html  
 
This policy offers details concerning university grading principles for students taking courses 
and covers the specifics of assigning and changing grades, grading options, drop/withdrawals, 
and course repeats.  It also defines the undergraduate and graduate grading standards. 
10.9.2  University Policy on Grades for Transfer Courses & PCHE 
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student -life/transfer-credit-evaluation-and-
assignment.html   
Carnegie Mellon University offers students the opportunity to take courses for credit through a 
cross-registration program (see Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-
registration below) and through the receipt of transfer credit from other accredited institutions. 
The Carnegie Mellon University transcript will include information on such courses as follows: 
Carnegie Mellon courses and courses taken through the university's cross-registration program 
will have grades recorded on the transcript and be factored into the QPA. All other courses will 
be recorded on this transcript indicating where the course was taken but without a grade. Such 
courses will not be taken into account for academic actions, honors  or QPA calculations. (Note: 
Suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer credit only 
if their college’s and department's policies allow this.)  
The MSAII program does not accept transfer credit for courses taken prior to matriculation at 
Carnegie Mellon. 
The MSAII program does not accept  distance education credits except for distance courses 
offered by Carnegie Mello n or PCHE institutions. 
10.10 Academic Integrity 
Carnegie Mellon’s Academic Integrity policy is posted at  
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and -student-life/academic-integrity.html.  All students 
 are expected to be familiar with this policy, including the university-wi de protocol for handling 
academic integrity violations.  The policy includes the University expectations around academic 
integrity and provides definitions of cheating, plagiarism, and unauthorized assistance.  
A review of the University’s Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures 
(https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/academic-discipline/index.html ) is also 
recommended. These procedures outline the process for investigating, reporting, and 
adjudicating violations of the University Policy  on Academic Integrity. The procedures also 
outline the appeal process. 
It is an absolute requirement  that the work you submit must be your own, unless you 
specifically identify the source of any material that is not yours.  This includes quotations and 
material from websites.  In any written work (including presentations) you MUST list any 
person other than yourself who assisted you in preparing that work.  Any student who violates 
the academic integrity policy will be subject to a University review that may result in 
suspension or expulsion under University policies.  THE PROGRAM DIRECTOR, THE 
FACULTY AND THE UNIVERSITY ARE VERY SERIOUS ABOUT ENFORCEMENT OF THE 
ACADEMIC INTEGRITY POLICY.   
You are not permitted to copy material from web pages, including Wikipedia, and present them 
as your own work.  Any copied material MUST appear in quotation marks or italics and MUST 
be accompanied by a citation to the original source.   Failure to do this violates CMU’s Policy on 
Academic Integrity, which states, “In all academic work to be graded, the citation of all sources 
is required. … Plagiarism is defined as the use of work or concepts contributed by other 
individuals without proper attribution or citation . Unique ideas or materia ls taken from another 
source for either written or oral use must be  fully acknowledged in academic work to be 
graded.” 
It is a violation of academic integrity for you to assist anyone else in violating the policy or to 
provide your work to others to assist them.  Be cause team deliverables are the product of joint 
work, it is the responsibility of each member of  a team to ensure that all team materials have 
been produced in conformance with CMU policies. Credit cannot be given for work that is not a 
student’s own. Therefore, if one member of a team violates a policy, for example, by copying 
material from the Internet without indicating it s source, then no one on the team can receive 
credit for that work, even if only one student is directly guilty of violating the policy. 
We are aware that acts that constitute cheating  can be viewed very differently in different 
countries and cultures.  However, Carnegie Mellon is a U.S. university and its policies reflect 
U.S. culture.  Employers expect that students  who graduate from Carnegie Mellon have 
obtained their degree legitimately and according to Carnegie Mellon policies.  If you have any 
doubt whether proposed conduct would be considered cheating under Carnegie Mellon policies, 
ASK A FACULTY MEMBER OR THE DIRECTOR FIRST.   
23 
 All violations of the Academic Integrity policy MUST be reported to the University 
administration by the faculty members involved.  Copies go to the Program Director, the Head of 
the Language Technology Institute, the Associate Dean for Master’s Programs, and various 
officials at Warner Hall.   The faculty do not have the option to decline to make a report.  The 
offending student will receive an email to inform them of an Academic Integrity Violation (AIV). 
The email will specify the offense and the penalty, and will inform the student of available 
appeal procedures. An AIV that is successfully appealed is erased. 
Important note:   The university policy gives a department the option of “conven[ing] a 
disciplinary hearing according to the procedure s of the department/pro gram.”  The LTI has a 
“two strikes” rule.  The LTI may terminate a student for a first violation, depending upon the 
circumstances and severity of the violation.  The LTI always terminates  a student for a second 
violation, with no exceptions.  