Handbook-MSAII-2022-2023
I always terminates  a student for a second 
violation, with no exceptions.  
11 Academic Policies 
11.1 Course Registration    
11.1.1 Status 
All Students must be registered for at least 48 units during each semester. Any questions about 
registration should be directed  to the Enrollment Services (the HUB). Note that International 
students are required to be registered as full-time students, minimum 36 units .   
11.1.2 Academic Calendar  
The Academic Calendar can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/ .   All dates about 
registration, add/drop deadlines, university holidays and more can be  found there.    
11.1.3 Online Registration  
All new students will register for required courses in April after accepting admission and 
receiving an Andrew ID. After that, students wi ll register following the schedule set by the 
HUB. Note that students must meet with their advisor to obtain approval for their course 
selection. Registration information is available at 
www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/registration/index.html .  Online registration is done with an 
Andrew ID at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/sio/about.html .   
Students must register for at least 48 units per semester.   
24 
 11.1.4 Double-Dipping 
An MSAII student who applies courses taken as part of another degree program (at Carnegie 
Mellon or elsewhere) toward their program requirements cannot use those same courses toward 
any other M.S. degree offered by the School of Computer Science without prior approval. 
11.1.5 Pass/No Pass Courses (Pass/Fail) 
With the approval of the Program Director , a graduate student may choose to take one 
ELECTIVE course pass/no pass. Core courses an d Knowledge courses may not be taken pass/no 
pass.  By the deadline for changing a course to  pass/no pass, the student must fill out the 
Pass/No Pass Approval Form and receive permission from their advisor. A pass/no pass election 
is irrevocable as a matter of CMU policy. (A form can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/forms.html ) 
11.1.6 Auditing a Course  
With the approval of the Program Director, a graduate student may audit a course by obtaining 
the permission of the instructor or teaching department and completing the Course Audit 
Approval Form. Audited classes are not taken for credit and cannot be used to fulfill graduation 
requirements. (Audit form can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/forms.html )  
11.1.7 Adding a Course  
During the ADD period of each semester (the first two weeks of the semester), students may add 
a course by registering online. After the ADD dead line, they may add a course by completing the 
Late Add Request form and obtaining the permission of both: 1) the instructor or teaching 
department and 2) their advisor.  (Add form can be found at 
https://www.cmu.edu/hub/forms.html )   
11.1.8 Dropping a Course  
Dropping courses is not recommended except for reasons of health or family emergency.  Many 
SCS courses have long waitlist s, and dropping a course means that some other student who 
might have had the opportunity to take the course had been denied that ability.  Also, if students 
in the MSAII program drop courses, then the instructors of those courses may no longer allow 
MSAIIs to enroll. 
Sometimes, however, a student’s workload can  become unexpectedly heavy because of course 
requirements.  No one is expected to suffer from such pressure and dropping a course may 
become a necessity.  To avoid this unfortunate circumstance, yo u should inform yourself in 
advance of the curriculum and workload in each course you plan to take and ensure that you are 
capable of handling the load.  Note that CMU SCS courses are very difficult, and students who 
 may easily have handled taking five courses simultaneously at another institution may not be 
able to do so at CMU. 
Exact add, drop and withdrawal dates may be found on the official Academic Calendar. Up until 
the deadlines, students can initiate course adds and drops through Student Information Online 
(SIO). Courses dropped by the deadline will not appear on the student's record, and courses 
withdrawn from by the deadline will receive a 'W ' grade. Additionally, a voucher process has 
been implemented for late drops. 
Students taking undergraduate and Master’s level courses must follow the procedures and 
deadlines for adding, dropping, or withdrawing from courses as identified on the academic 
calendar. Information can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/course-
changes/index.html . 
Late Course Drops & Vouchers 
A late drop voucher system was implemented beginning with the fall 2018 semester to permit a 
limited number of late course drops. Master's students are permitted one drop voucher per year 
of study and may use only one voucher per semester (including summer).  Courses dropped 
using a voucher will be removed from the student' s record, as long as the drop is confirmed in 
SIO by the student within 24 hours of receiving the automated voucher email (refer to 
instructions below). Students may use drop vouchers up until the last day of classes each 
semester.  These policies are spelled out at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/course-
changes/index.html . 
Note that the Core courses and some Knowledge courses are only offered once per year so 
dropping a course may delay program completion.  
Note:  International students must maintain a minimum of 36 units (Full time) to meet the U.S. 
government’s visa requirement. Please check with  the Office of International Education (OIE) 
for more information.   
11.1.9 Transfer Credits  
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/transfer-credit-evaluation-and- 
assignment.html 
Carnegie Mellon University offers students the opportunity to take courses for credit through a 
cross-registration program (see Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-
registration below) and through the receipt of transfer credit from other accredited institutions. 
The Carnegie Mellon University transcript will include information on such courses as follows: 
Carnegie Mellon courses and courses taken through the university's cross-registration program 
will have grades recorded on the transcript and be factored into the QPA. All other courses will 
be recorded on this transcript indicating where the course was taken, but without grades. Such 
 courses will not be taken into account for academic actions, honors  or QPA calculations. (Note: 
suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer credit only 
if their college's and department's policies allow this.). 
The MSAII program does not accept transfer credits. 
11.1.10  Leave of Absence  
Students who need to delay their studies for personal, medical or academic reasons may do so 
with a leave of absence (leaving the university temporarily with a commitment to return). 
Students must contact the MSAII Director to discuss their plans and fill out the appropriate form.  The student’s place in the program will be  held until a mutually  determined time. For 
more information refer to www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/student-leave.html . 
When planning to return from Leave of Absence students must complete the appropriate 
paperwork before returning to the University.   
MSAII students who require longer than the standard time to complete their degree 
requirements are expected to remain in close contact  with the program, and will be certified at 
the end of the semester in which they have completed their degree requirements. Students must 
refer to the CMU Policy on Master ’s Student Statute of Limitations 
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/ student-and-student-life/masters-students-statute-of-
limitations.html ) regarding guidelines and restrictions  which place an upper limit on the 
maximum length of time allowable for master’s degree completion and certification. 
11.1.11  Additional Guidance for Students   
Program of study . Students seeking guidance about their program of study and degree 
requirements should consult with their academic  advisor and/or appropriate associate dean.  
Financial aid and student account.  Students are expected to make normal progress toward 
their degree in order to graduate within the standard timeframe for their program of study. 
Under U.S. Federal Title IV regulations, student eligibility for federal financial aid is contingent 
upon enrollment in and successful completion of courses that are counted as credit toward their 
current degree program. To receive the maximum amount of federal financial aid for which they 
may be eligible, students must enroll each semester  in at least 36 units that count toward their 
current degree level. (See separate guidance  regarding integrated degree completion.)  
Students should consult with their designated college liaison in The HU B regarding billing and 
financial aid, particularly for early completion , longer-than-standard completion, or integrated 
undergraduate and master’s degree programs.  
International students . Immigration status for students in  F-1 and J-1 non-immigrant status is 
tied to making normal progress toward completing  degree requirements. Therefore, F-1 and J-1 
27 
 students who are considering completing their degree requirements early, anticipating longer-
than-standard completion, or moving from an undergraduate to a graduate student classification 
(integrated undergraduate-graduate study) should  consult with their designated advisor in the 
Office of International Education (OIE) to ensure compliance with immigration regulations. 
11.1.12  Withdrawal   
Students who need to withdraw from the program (leave the university with no intention of 
returning) for personal, medical or academic reasons must contact the MSAII Director to 
discuss their plans and fill out the appropriate form. For more information refer to 
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and- student-life/student-leave.html .    
11.2 Tuition and Fees   
Information about tuition and fees is available at https://www.cmu.edu/sfs/tuition/index.html .  
MSAII students will pay tuition according to the rates set for the School of Computer Science.  
All tuition and fees must be paid in full by the due date; a student not in good financial standing 
will be dismissed from the program. Students taking summer courses must pay tuition.   
11.3 Graduation Ceremonies   
The University holds one Commencement ceremony in May of each year.  Only students who 
have completed their degree requirements may participate in Commencement. 
There are no August or December commencement ceremonies.  
11.3.1 Withdrawal of Degree 
A degree once conferred can be withdrawn by the University under certain circumstances.  See 
the Withdrawal of Degree Policy . 
11.4 LTI Academic Policies 
11.4.1 “Grandfather” policy 
A student can graduate under the policies in effect at the time that the student entered the 
program; or, at the student's choice, the student  can graduate under policies that are adopted 
after the student entered the program. If it is no t realistic to follow a particular policy exactly, 
the department may approximate the policy as closely as possible; this situation is rare and 
typically arises only when a student is enrolled in the program for an extended period. 
28 
 11.4.2  Definition of transfer credit  versus course exemption  
The LTI may grant transfer credit  or issue an exemption  for equivalent graduate courses 
previously completed at another institution. This decision rests with the program director, on 
the advice of the faculty member for whose course an exempt ion is sought. If a student is 
exempt  from a required course due to  prior courses or experience, the student can replace that 
course with an open elective. The student does  not receive credit for the exempted course but 
can take any course that could normally count toward the degree in its place. If a student 
receives credit  for prior coursework completed at Carnegie Mellon or elsewhere, the student 
receives that many units of credit and the total amount of required coursework is reduced by 
that amount. 
11.4.3  Employment/Consulting 
Since consulting provides useful experience, students are generally permitted to consult at most 
one day per seven-day week, with the Program Di rector's consent.  International students must 
also have approval in advance from the Office  of International Education (OIE) for any paid 
position.  Students may use their consulting time to perform unpaid work on research projects 
for CMU faculty for up to 10 hours per week. 
Students may serve as teaching assistants for CMU faculty.   TA work is inconsistent with 
research because of the necessary time commitment.  Students must choose one activity or the 
other, not both. 
Note that there is an English language proficiency requirement for TAs.  Graduate students are 
required to have a certain level of  fluency in English before they can instruct in Pennsylvania, as 
required by the English Fluency in Higher Education Act of 1990. Through this Act, all 
institutions of higher education in the state are required to evaluate and certify the English 
fluency of all instructional personnel, including teaching assistants and interns. The full 
university policy can be reviewed at: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/faculty/evaluation-
certification-english-fluency-instructors.html . 
11.4.4  Leave of Absence 
The LTI discourages Leaves of Absence (LOA) since students usually do not return, despite 
having good intentions. However,  a student in good standing may  be granted a LOA of at most 
one year, upon written request to the MSAII Director and with the consent of the student's 
advisor. It is the responsibility of  the student on LOA to contact the LTI to initiate a return to 
the program. 
Students taking or returning from a leave of absence must follow the university’s leave of 
absence process, which is described at www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-
life/student-leave.html.  
 11.4.5  Satisfactory Progress 
If a student  does not make satisfactory progress each semester toward completing the degree, the 
LTI may remove the student from the program.  See section on “End of Semester Evaluation.” 
11.5 Carnegie Mellon Academic Policies 
11.5.1 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities 
The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University has a continued mission to 
provide physical and programmatic campus access to all events and information within the 
Carnegie Mellon community.  We work to ensure that qualified individuals receive reasonable 
accommodations as guaranteed by the Americans wi th Disabilities Act (ADA) and Sections 503 
and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.  Students who would like to receive accommodations 
must submit a Voluntary Disclosure of Disability Form  to access@andrew.cmu.edu  to begin the 
interactive accommodation process.   
For more information, please see https://www.cmu.edu/disability-resources/ .Students with 
physical, sensory, cognitive, or  emotional disabilities are encouraged to self-identify with the 
Office of Disability Resources  and request needed accommodation s.  Any questions about the 
process can be directed to access@andrew.cmu.edu, or call (412) 268-6121. 
11.5.2  Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures 
Students who believe that they have been inappropriately treated are encouraged to raise their 
concern(s) with the Program Director, department  head, or other designated person in their 
department, college, or central administration accord ing to University policies.  No effort will be 
made to prevent or discourage anyone from availing themselves of such procedures (see Graduate Student Appeal and Procedures www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/appeal-grievance-
procedures.html ). 
Graduate students will find the Summary of  Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance 
Procedures on the Graduate Education Resource web page.   This document summarizes 
processes available to graduate students who se ek review of academic and non-academic issues. 
Graduate students are expected to seek informal resolution of all concerns within the applicable 
department, unit or program before invoking formal processes. When an informal resolution 
cannot be reached, however, a graduate student who seeks further review of the matter is to 
follow the formal procedures outlined here.   These appeal and grievance procedures shall apply 
to students in all graduate programs of the University. Students should refer to the department 
specific information in this handbook for department and college information about the 
administration and academic policies of the prog ram.  Additionally, students may confer with 
30 
 the Graduate Education Office ( grad-ed@cmu.edu ) on issues of process or other concerns as 
they navigate conflicts. 
11.5.3  Process for Appealing Final Grades 
https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies /appeal-grievance-procedures.html .  
Final grades will be changed only in exceptional circumstances and only with the approval of 
the instructor and the department, unit or prog ram. Grading is a matter of  sound discretion of 
the instructor and final grades are rarely changed without the consent of the instructor who 
assigned the grade.  The following circumstances are the unusual exceptions that may warrant a 
grade appeal: (a) the final grade assigned for a course is based on manifest error (e.g. a clear error 
such as arithmetic error in computing a grade or failure to grade one of the answers on an exam), 
or (b) the faculty or staff member who assigned the grade did so in violation of a University 
policy 
11.5.4  Safeguarding Educational Equity: 
Policy Against Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault 
The University prohibits sex-based discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating/ 
domestic violence and stalking. The University al so prohibits retaliation against individuals 
who bring forward such concerns or allegation s in good faith.  The University’s Sexual 
Misconduct Policy is available at www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-
governance/sexual-harassment-and-sexual-assault.html.   If you believe you have been the victim 
of sexual harassment or sexual assault, you are encouraged to make contact with any of the 
following resources: 
 Office of Title IX Initiatives, http://www.cmu.edu/title-ix/ , 412-268-7125 
 Sexual Harassment Advisors, found in Appendix A of the Policy Against Sexual 
Harassment and Sexual Assault; 
 Survivor Support Network, found in Appendix B of the Policy Against Sexual 
Harassment and Sexual Assault; 
 Sexual Harassment Process and Title IX Coordinators, found in section II of the Policy 
Against Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault; 
 University Police, 412-268-2323 
 University Health Services, 412-268-2157 
 Counseling & Psychological Services, 412-268-2922 
31 
 Additional resources and information can be found at :  https://www.cmu.edu/title-ix/resources-
and-information/resources.html . 
The University’s Policy Against Retaliation is available at 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-governance/whistleblower.html  
The MSAII program has a ZERO TOLERANCE  policy on sexual harassment and sexual assault. 
If you are found to have violated Carnegie Mell on policy, you will be dropped from the MSAII 
program immediately without exception .  CMU has spent decades successfully developing a 
non-threatening environment for all genders and no one will be permitted to  interfere with that 
accomplishment. 
Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/consensual-relationships.html  
This policy is relevant for graduate students who will be in a supervisory role of undergraduate 
students as a TA or in a research lab/studio setting.  This policy addresses the circumstances in 
which romantic, sexual or amorous relationships/ interactions with undergraduate students, 
even if consensual, are inappropriate and prohibited. The purpose of this policy is to assure 
healthy professional relationships. This policy is not intended to discourage consensual intimate 
relationships unless there is a conflicting professional relationship in  which one party has 
authority over the other as in the policy. 
11.5.5  Cultural Tolerance 
The MSAII program is extremely diverse for a program of its size. We have students from 
numerous different countries who must work effectively in a team setting.  The students 
invariably come from very different cultures that  have differing attitudes  towards age, gender, 
and group interaction.  The program management understands this, but the students must also 
recognize that this program is being conducted in  the United States and operates according to 
U.S. norms.  Students and faculty,  regardless of background, age, or rank, must deal with each 
other respectfully without insult or raised voices .  It is impossible to conduct teamwork in any 
other way.  Violations will be dealt with harshly.  The Program Director is not sympathetic to 
such behavior, which will not be tolerated.  Repeated infractions, or a serious single infraction 
may result in termination from the program. 
11.5.6  Language Policy 
The MSAII program is a component of the Language  Technologies Institute, which studies and 
celebrates the diversity of human language and forms of expression.  The LTI also recognizes the 
futility and unfairness of attempting to determine the language students must use when 
communicating.  However, it is unprofessional in any official team meeting to speak a language 
 that is not understood by all team members.  Fo r example, if all members of a team understand 
Chinese, then they may use Chinese in team meetings.  However,  if even one team member does 
not understand Chinese, then a language must be us ed that is understood by all team members.  
It is recommended that non-native speakers of English use English as much as possible if they 
intend to seek employment in  an English-speaking country. 
11.5.7  Childbirth/Maternity Accommodation Protocol 
The Maternity Policy is available at https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/programs-
services/maternity-accommodation-protocol.html . 
Students whose anticipated delivery date is during the course of the semester may consider 
taking time away from their coursework and re search responsibilities. All female students who 
give birth to a child while engaged in coursework or  research are eligible to take either a short-
term absence or formal leave of absence. Students in course work should consider either 
working with their course instructor to receive in complete grades or elect to drop to part-time 
status or to take a semester leave of absence.   Students engaged in research must work with 
their faculty to develop plans for the re search for the time  they are away.  
● Students must contact the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs to register for Maternity 
Accommodations. Students will complete an information form and meet with a member of the 
Dean’s Office staff to determine resources and procedures appropriate for the individual student. 
○ Planning for the student’s discussion with appropriate academic contact(s) 
(advisor, associate dean, etc.) may be reviewed during this meeting. 
● Students in course work should consider options for the semester of the anticipated 
birth such as working with their course instructors to receive incomplete grades, electing to 
drop to part-time status or taking  a full semester leave of absence. 
● Students engaged in research  must work with their faculty to develop plans for the 
research for the time they are aw ay and for resuming upon return. 
● Master's students who receive an academic stipend funded by Carnegie Mellon are 
eligible to continue to receive stipend funding for up to six (6) week s during a Short-Term 
Maternity Accommodation or a Formal Leave of Absence. Continued academic stipend funding may be extended by two (2) weeks, for a total of eight (8) weeks, if an absence longer than six 
weeks is medically necessary. To receive this support students must be registered with the 
Office of the Dean of Students. 
Students are encouraged to consult with relevant university faculty and staff as soon as possible 
as they begin making plans regarding time away.   Students must contact the Office of the Dean 
of Student Affairs to register for Maternity Accommodations.  Students will complete an 
information form and meet with a member of De an’s Office staff to determine resources and 
 procedures appropriate for the individual student. Planning for the student’s discussion with 
her academic contact(s) (advisor, associate dean, etc.) will be reviewed during this meeting. 
11.6 Statute of Limitations 
As outlined in the Master’s Students Statute of Limitations, www.cmu.edu/policies/student-
and-student-life/masters-students-statute-of-limitations.html, students must complete all 
requirements for the master’s degree within  a maximum of seven years from original 
matriculation as a master’s student, or less if required by a more restrictive department, school 
or college policy.  Once this time-to-degree limit has lapsed, the person may resume work 
towards a master’s degree only if newly admitted  to a currently offered master’s degree program 
under criteria determined by that program. 
Under extraordinary circumstances, such as leave of absence, military or public service, family or 
parental leave, or temporary disability, a school or college may, upon the relevant department's 
recommendation and with the written approval of the dean (or designate), defer the lapse for a 
period commensurate with the duration of that  interruption. Students who are pursuing a 
master’s degree as part-time students for all semesters of their program,  as approved by their 
program, may also appeal to their program or department for extension of the time to degree 
limit.  
Any request for a waiver of the statute of limitations must be approved by  the Department Head 
and by the SCS Associate Dean for Masters Programs. The waiver request must explain the 
exceptional circumstances that warrant an extension. For cases in which a waiver is granted, 
the waiver will cover specific courses and will specify a time period for completion of the 
program. 
See also the ‘Duration of Study’ policy. 
11.7 Residency Requirement 
The MSAII is a full-time, in-residence program conducted only on the Pittsburgh campus.  In 
exceptional circumstances, such as visa complications or medical exigencies, permission may be 
granted by the Director allowing a student to participate in short portions of the program 
remotely.  This is not possible for first-year students.  