Handbook-MSAII-2022-2023
13 Additional University Resources 
13.1 The HUB Student Services Center  
thehub@andrew.cmu.edu  and www.cmu.edu/hub/   
The HUB is located in Warner Hall , Lower Level.  The HUB staff delivers comprehensive service 
and counsel to students and families regarding financial aid, billing and payment, registration 
and academic records. The Assistant Directors in The HUB serve as contacts for specific colleges 
and assist enrolled students with key aspects of the enrollment process.  A student can find their 
assigned HUB Assistant Director on their Student Information Online (SIO) Resource 
page.  Questions that need specialized, in-depth attention can be directed to the student's 
assigned Assistant Director.  For general questions and information, students may email The 
HUB or call 412-268-8186. 
13.2 Student Information Online (SIO)  
Student Information Online (SIO) is a secure site where students can  find important, 
personalized information, including E-Bills and student account information, financial aid status 
and eligibility, grades and QP A, and course schedules. Students can update their and their 
spouse’s or domestic partner's contact information, sign up for E-Check & E-Refund, authorize 
their spouses, domestic partners or  another individual to receive a copy of their E-Bill, request 
verifications, view their housing and meal plan  assignments, and much more. Students can log 
on to SIO by going to www.cmu.edu/hub/sio  and entering their Andrew User ID and password. 
On SIO, students will designate an emergency contact address of a relative or family friend to be 
contacted in the case of an emergency.   If students do not want their name and address 
published in the campus directory, they  must notify the HUB in writing. 
13.3 ID Cards 
Graduate students can obtain their ID card from  The HUB once they have been entered into SIO 
for the semester.  These cards identify their holders as members of the campus community.  
Student cards are deactivated upon the cardholder’s separation from the university.  
Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and partners of graduate students that allow them to 
access Carnegie Mellon’s campus.  These cards are available through The HUB to spouses and 
partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the current academic year in a full-time 
graduate degree program.  The card is valid for one year.   For information about domestic 
partner registration, visit the Office of the Dean of  Student Affairs webpage:  
www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean/domestic-partner/ . 
36 
 For more information about student and affiliate ID cards (spouse, domestic partners and 
dependent children), please visit https://www.cmu.edu/oie/settling-in-guide/information-for-
families.html . 
13.4 Transcripts 
Information about and instructions for ordering transcripts are available at: 
www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/student-records/transcripts/ .  Transcript questions may be directed 
to cmuregistrar@andrew.cmu.edu . 
13.5 Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-registration 
www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/registration/cross/index.html  
Cross-registration provides an opportunity for enriched educational programs by permitting 
full-time graduate students to cross-register for courses (usually no more than one per semester) 
at a Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (P CHE) Institution. Full-time Carnegie Mellon 
degree students are eligible and the PCHE course may not count towards full-time status unless 
the student is enrolled in an inter-university program. Students interested in taking advantage 
of this opportunity should be familiar with the Policy on Grades for Transfer Courses already 
outlined previously in this handbook. 
Department specific information ab out graduate students’ ability to  cross register and transfer 
grades should be included here.  
13.6 Student Privacy Rights and FERPA 
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student -life/privacy-rights-students.html  
This university policy notifies students of their rights under the federal Family Educational 
Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).  According to FERPA, students have the right to: 
 inspect and review their education records;  
 request an amendment to their education record  if they believe they are inaccurate or 
misleading; 
 request a hearing if their request for an amendment is not resolved to their satisfaction; 
 consent to disclosure of personally identifiable information from their education records, 
except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent; 
 file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education Family Policy Compliance Office 
if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated. 
37 
 For questions about Student Privacy Rights, FE RPA or filing a complaint, contact John 
Papinchak, University Registrar, jp7p@andrew.cmu.edu , in Enrollment Services. 
13.7 Academic Calendar 
The official academic calendar is published by Enrollment Services.  It is not uncommon for 
departments and colleges to have academic requirements that differ from or are in addition to 
those presented in the academic calendar provided to the campus community by Enrollment Services.  See https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/ docs/2223-academic-calendar.pdf .. 
13.8 Professional Development 
The Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) ( www.cmu.edu/career/ )at Carnegie 
Mellon is a centralized career center staff ed by a team of seasoned and highly-educated 
professionals who orchestrate the career exploration, experiential learning, and career 
networking needs of students and alumni.  
Carnegie Mellon's career and professional development model is grounded in discipline-specific 
career development, experiential learning, and employer relations shaped by strong connections 
with the university's seven academic colleges. The center's success is founded upon a solid 
understanding of career and professional development theory, integration of technology, and an 
unwavering commitment to providing personalized attention towards meeting the unique 
individual needs of students, alumni, and employers.  The CDPC is located on the second floor of 
the West Wing Dormitory, 412-268-2064. 
The Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offers a robust 
schedule of professional development opportunities.  Some are geared towards a specific 
population (master’s students, PhD students at  the beginning of their program, graduate 
students seeking tenure track positions, etc.) an d others are open to all graduate students (time 
management, balancing, staying healthy).  A full schedule of programs can be found at: 
www.cmu.edu/graduate/ . 
13.9 University Libraries 
search.library.cmu.edu  
There are three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon :  Hunt Library, Mellon Institute Library and 
Engineering & Science Library with the comb ined mission of providing access and help to 
graduate students in finding the information needed, teaching graduate students to evaluate 
available information and use reliable sources. The libraries’ digital resources and services, 
including off-campus/ wireless access to databases and e-journals, offer online access. There are also two neighboring libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students: Carnegie Library of 
Pittsburgh and University of Pittsburgh Libraries.   Visit the University Libraries website for 
information about all mentioned library locations and hours, on-line resources and FAQ’s. 
13.10  Computing Services 
www.cmu.edu/computing/  
Computing Services is located in Cyert Hall 285.   Computing Services develops, maintains and 
supports the computing infrastructure for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members and staff 
members. This includes the campus wired and wireless networks, public computer labs or 
“clusters,” cable television and telephone services, computing related documentation and 
support through the Help Center.  In addition, Computing Services provides standard classroom 
technologies for over 100 lecture halls, classrooms and seminar rooms across campus.  The 
website contains additional information regarding The Help Center hours, location and contact 
information, computing cluster hours and location, the Carnegie Mellon web portal, computing 
security and policies and guidelines.  Students can email the Help Center at it-help@cmu.edu 
with questions and for assistance.  
13.11 Family and Dependents Resources 
The Graduate Student Assembly website maintains a resource page for spouses, domestic 
partners and families of graduate students: www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/Resources-for-Graduate-
Students/Partner-and-Family-Resources.html,  including The Student Parent Association, new 
mother rooms, and links to resources around campus and the Pittsburgh area. 
13.12  Domestic Partner Registration 
Carnegie Mellon extends certain benefits to domestic partners of students.  Eligible students 
may elect benefits for their domestic partners through the registration process orchestrated by 
the Office of the Dean of Students, 3rd floor Warner Hall.  Information regarding the benefits 
available for domestic partners, eligibility for domestic partner benefits, registration 
instructions and forms can be located at: www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean/domestic-partner/ . 
13.13  Housing 
The university does not currently offer housing to  graduate students.   The Office of Housing 
and Dining Services provides community housing information to assist graduate students who 
are seeking housing in the communities surrounding the university, including information on 
 the legal aspects of renting an apartment, moving checklists and the off-campus housing 
database.  This information can be located at:  https://www.cmu.edu/housing/ . 
13.14  Dining 
www.cmu.edu/dining/   
Dining services and operations are offered through the Office of Housing and Dining Services.  
The office operates dining locations open around campus in academic buildings, Hunt Library 
and the University Center. These locations offer flexible hours with options from the early 
morning through late night.   The Dining Services website contains information about dining 
locations, hours of operation, graduate student dining plans forms, nutritional information, and 
weekly menus for dining locations. 
13.15  Parking and Transportation 
www.cmu.edu/parking/  
Graduate students will find in formation about parking and availability, parking policies, 
transportation options and Port Authority Tran sit usage with a valid university ID on the 
Parking and Transportation Services site.  The Parking and Transportation Services office is 
located in the East Campus Garage by the Forbes Ave entrance.  There is limited parking on campus, and the varying permit rate s can be found on the website.   All parking areas of campus 
are either by permit, metered or by the hour in  the garage.  Parking and Transportation Services 
will ticket any car parked in a permit area with out a permit or at an expired meter.  The city 
monitors the metered parking along Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech Streets and will ticket 
at expired meters as well. 
The university offers shuttle and escort services operated by University Police.  The Shuttle 
Service operates several routes within Oakland, Squirrel Hill and Shadyside areas, as well as to 
University sites located outside of the main campus.  The Escort Service offers vehicle routes 
within a radius of campus between 6:30 pm-4:15  am daily.  Information regarding up-to-date 
shuttle and escort schedules, pick-up/drop-off lo cations, routes and usage policies can be found 
at www.cmu.edu/parking/shuttle/index.html .  
SafeWalk provides another option to campus community members walking across and around 
campus during late-night hours. SafeWalk is a student volunteer organization that provides 
campus escorts for all members of the Carnegie  Mellon community. SafeWalk operates nightly 
during the regular academic year (except certain holidays and break periods) from 10pm until 
2am. Students, faculty, and staff may request an escort by calling 412-268-SAFE (8-7233 from a 
campus phone), by approaching an escort team, or by stopping by the SafeWalk dispatch area in 
the University Center, Lower Level near the Post Office Package Pick-Up window between 
10pm-2am. SafeWalk will escort to locations approximately one mile from campus. Additional 
 SafeWalk information can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/admission/campus-
experience/student-services.  
13.16  Copying, Printing and Mailing Services 
Carnegie Mellon offers community members easy  access to FedEx, copy centers, printing and 
mailing services, and postal services. More information regarding these services, locations and 
contact information can be  found in The Word at 
www.cmu.edu/tartanink/copyprint/index.html  
13.17  University Center 
www.cmu.edu/university-center  
The University Center is a centerpiece of the camp us that provides a space for special events, 
physical fitness, student organizations and various activities, as well as accommodating retail 
and dining services. As the campus crossroads, the University Center functions as a place for 
students to interact, get involved and enjoy new experiences.  Visit the University Center 
website for information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness rooms and 
schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Center space, the public prayer room, student 
organizations and the Wright-Rogal Chapel. 
The University Center Information Desk is the lo cation if you want to know about upcoming 
campus events or have questions about Carnegie Mellon in general, call the Information Desk at 
412-268-2107. The Information Desk not only provides information about campus events, but 
also sells postage stamps, makes copies, sends faxes, distributes campus maps, manages a lost & 
found, and has information brochures about Pittsburgh and the campus.  
13.18  Athletic/Fitness Facilities 
www.cmu.edu/athletics  
For the participant or the spectator, Carnegie Mellon offers intercollegiate athletics, intramural 
sports, physical education classes and club sports. The Athletics Department also offers aerobics 
classes in the University Center  and Skibo Gym as well as occasional workshops and instruction 
related to fitness and health.  The Athletics Office is located in the Cohon University Center. 
Skibo Gym facilities include courts for basketball, volleyball, badminton, as well as weight-
training and aerobic equipment. The University Cent er’s recreational facilities include an eight-
lane pool, racquetball and squash courts, aerobics room, fitness center and gym for basketball 
and volleyball. All users must present a current Carnegie Mellon Card to use these facilities. 
 13.19  CMU Alert 
www.cmu.edu/alert   
CMU Alert sends voice and/or text messages to registered phones in the event of a campus 
emergency that threatens public safety or during tests of the system  in the spring and fall 
semesters.  Students can  register for CMU Alert through the website.   