Handbook-MSAII-2022-2023
8 MSAII Policies 
The Language Technologies Institute (LTI) ha s prepared this statement of policies, program 
requirements, guidance, process and procedures for students in the M.S. in Artificial Intelligence 
and Innovation (MSAII) program. A copy of this handbook is also available online at the 
program website .   
The University Student guide, The Word, which  details university-wide policies, is also 
available online at www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword .     
Additional resources specific to graduate students can be found at 
www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/     
8.1 The MSAII Degree 
The M.S. in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII) is a professional master's program 
offered by the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) in the School of Computer Science at 
Carnegie Mellon University. This program seeks to educate students in the innovative use of 
artificial intelligence to create practical soluti ons in a wide variety of application areas. As 
artificial intelligence matures, th ere is a great need for students who can envision, design, plan 
and deliver solutions that integrate AI technolo gies such as deep learning, natural language 
processing, robotics and big data analytics into  new applications.  The program stresses both 
10 
 intrapreneurship and entrepreneurship and enco urages students to develop ideas for startups 
and for introduction into established companies. 
The curriculum is designed for students who have  a strong background in computer science 
with interest in in-depth study of AI to ena ble them to develop re al-world applications, 
especially in areas to which AI has not yet b een applied. The integrated curriculum includes 
coursework and team projects lead ing to a full-semester capstone project to produce a working 
prototype.     
8.2 Program Contacts 
Michael I. Shamos       
 Director, MSAII      Distinguished Career Professor    
 G H C  6 7 0 7           
 shamos@cs.cmu.edu  
 
Amber Vivis 
 Academic Program Manager, MSAII  TCS 357 
 412-268-9998 
 avivis@cs.cmu.edu  
 
 Carolyn Penstein Rosé      Interim Director, Language Technologies Institute  Professor  GHC 5415 
 412-268-7130 
 cprose@cs.cmu.edu  
8.3 The Reasonable Person Principle (RPP) 
It is a long-standing and revered principle of the School of Computer Science (SCS) that 
members of our community are expected to act reasonably, and therefore we try to keep formal, 
written SCS policies to a minimum.  The faculty  do not burden the students with numerous 
rules, and, in return, we expect the students to not try to find technical  loopholes that violate 
the clear intent of program policies.  In any situation not covered by an explicit rule, you should 
ask yourself how reasonable people would behave  in that situation.  The RPP does not alter 
University-wide policies. 
8.4 Academic Calendar 
 The Academic Calendar can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/index.html  and 
provides information on all deadlines including registration date s, class start dates, add/drop 
deadlines, exam dates and more. 