Handbook-MSAII-2022-2023
14 Appendix A:  2022-2023 University  Resources for Graduate Students 
14.1 Key Offices for Graduate Student Support 
14.1.1 Graduate Education Office  
www.cmu.edu/graduate ;  grad-ed@cmu.edu  
The Graduate Education Office provides central support for all Master’s and Doctoral students 
with a focus on their academic experience at Carnegie Mellon. The Graduate Education Office 
serves as a hub for connecting graduate students to relevant campus experts and resources to 
support their academic success, understanding of university level policies and practices and to assist 
them in advancing their person al and professional development. 
 
Examples of resources offered through the Graduate Education Office include- but are not 
limited to: 
 Website with university resources, cont act information for CMU programs and 
services, calendar of events related to graduate students 
 Bi-monthly email to all graduate students with information on activities, resources 
and opportunities 
 Professional Development Seminars and Workshops 
 GSA/Provost Conference Funding Grants 
 GSA/Provost Small Research Grants (GuSH) 
 Consultations on issues related to  the graduate student experience 
 
The Graduate Education Office also works with the colleges and departments by informing and 
assisting in developing policy and procedures re levant to graduate students and working with 
departments on issues related to graduate students.  Additionally we partner with many other 
offices and organizations, such as the Graduate Student Assembly, to support the holistic graduate 
student educational experience  
14.1.2  Office of the Dean of Students 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean    
  
The Office of the Dean of Students provides central leadership of the metacurricular 
experience at Carnegie Mellon including the coordination of student support. Vice President 
of Student Affairs and De an of Students Gina Casalegno leads the Division of Student Affairs 
which includes the offices an d departments listed below (not an exhaustive list).  
 Graduate students will find the enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration  and 
Maternity Accommodations  in the Office of the Dean  of Students or on their website . This 
Office also manages the Emergency Student Loan (ESLs)  process.  Emergency Student Loans 
are made available through generous gifts of alumni and friends of the university. The 
Emergency Student Loan is an interest-free, emergency-based loan repayable to the university 
within 30 days. Loans are available to enroll ed students for academic  supplies, medication, 
food or other expenses not able to be met due to unforeseeable circumstances. 
 Additional resources for graduate students include College Liaisons  and the Student Support 
Resources  team. College Liaisons  are senior members of the Di vision of Student Affairs who 
work with departments and colleges addressing student concerns across a wide range of 
issues. College Liaisons are identified on the student SIO page in the Important Contacts list. 
The Student Support Resources team offers an additional level of support for students who are 
navigating any of a wide range of life events. Student Support Resources  staff members work 
in partnership with campus an d community resources to provide coordination of care and 
support appropriate to each student’s situation. 
 The Division of Student Affairs includes (not an exhaustive list): 
 
 Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation  
 Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)  
 Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion  
 Cohon University Center  
 Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)  
 Dining Services  
 Office of Community Standards and Integrity (OCSI)  
 Office of Student Leadership, Involvement, and Civic Engagement (SLICE)  
 University Health Services (UHS)  
 Wellness Initiatives  
  
14.1.3  Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-diversity/  
Diversity and inclusion have a singular place among  the values of Carnegie Mellon University. 
 The Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion actively cultivates a strong, diverse and inclusive 
community capable of living out these values and advancing research, creativity, learning and 
development that changes the world. 
 
The Center offers resources to enhance an inclusive and transformative student experience in 
dimensions such as access, success, campus climate and intergroup dialogue.  Additionally, the 
Center supports and connects historically underrepresented stud ents and those who are first in 
their family to attend college in a setting where students’ differences an d talents are appreciated 
and reinforced, both at the graduate and undergraduate level. Initiatives coordinated by the 
Center include, but are not limited to: 
 
 First generation/first in family to attend college programs  
 LGBTQ+ Initiatives  
 Race and ethnically-focused programs, includin g Inter-University Graduate Students of 
Color Series (SOC) and PhD SOC Network  
 Women’s empowerment programs, including Graduate Women’s Gatherings (GWGs) 
 Transgender and non-binary student programs 
14.1.4  Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities 
http://www.cmu.edu/disability-resources/  
The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University has a continued mission to 
provide physical , digital, and programmatic access to ensure that students with disabilities have 
equal access to their educational experience.  We work to ensure that qualified individuals 
receive reasonable accommodations as guaranteed by the Americans with Disabilities Act 
(ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of  1973.  Students who would like to receive 
accommodations can begin the process through Disability Resources'  secure online portal  or 
email access@andrew.cmu.edu to begin the interactive accommodation process. 
Students with physical, sensory, cognitive, or emotional disabilities are encouraged to self-
identify with the Office of Disability Resources and request needed accommodations.  Any 
questions about the process can be directed to access@andrew.cmu.edu , or call (412) 268-6121. 
14.1.5  Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation 
www.cmu.edu/teaching  
We offer a wide variety of confidential, consultation services and professional development 
programs to support graduate students as teach ing assistants or instructors of record during 
their time at Carnegie Mellon University and as future faculty members at other institutions. 
Regardless of one's current or future teaching context and duties, our goal is to disseminate 
evidence-based teaching strategies in ways that are accessible and actionable. Programs and 
 services include campus-wide Graduate Student Instructor Orientation events and our Future 
Faculty Program, both of which are designed to help participants be effective and efficient in 
their teaching roles. The Eberly Center also assists departments in creating and conducting 
customized programs to meet the specific needs of  their graduate student instructors. Specific 
information about Eberly Center support for graduate students is found at 
www.cmu.edu/teaching/graduatestudentsupport/index.html .    
14.1.6  Graduate Student Assembly 
www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/index.html  
The Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) is the branch of Carnegie  Mellon Student Government 
that represents, and advocates for the diverse interests of all graduate students at CMU. GSA is 
composed of representatives from the different graduate programs and departments who want 
to improve the graduate student experience at the different levels of the university. GSA is 
funded by the Student Activities Fee from all graduate students. GSA passes legislation, allocates 
student activities funding, advocates for legislative action locally and in Washington D.C. on 
behalf of graduate student issues and needs, and otherwise acts on behalf of all graduate student 
interests. Our recent accomplishments are a test ament to GSA making a difference, and steps to 
implementing the vision laid out by the strategic plan. https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/About-
the-GSA/Strategic-Plan.html . 
 
GSA offers an expanding suite of social prog ramming on and off-campus to bring graduate 
students from different departments together and build a sense of community. GSA is the host 
of the Graduate Student Lounge on the 3rd floor of the Cohon University Center- a great place to 
study or meet up with friends. GSA also maintains a website of graduate student resources on 
and off-campus. Through GSA’s continued funding  for professional development and research 
conferences, the GSA/Provost Conference Funding  Program and GSA/Provost GuSH Research 
Grants are able to run, as managed by the Graduate Education Office. As we move forward, GSA 
will continue to rely on your feedback to improve the graduate student experience at CMU. Feel 
free to contact us at < gsa@cmu.edu > to get involved, stop by our office in the Cohon University 
Center Room 304 or become a re presentative for your department.   
14.1.7  Office of International Education (OIE) 
http://www.cmu.edu/oie/  
Carnegie Mellon hosts international graduate and undergraduate students who come from 
more than 90 countries. The Office of International Education (OIE ) is the liaison to the 
University for all non-immigrant students and scholars, as well the repository for study 
abroad opportunities and advisement. OIE provides many services including: advising on 
personal, immigration, study abroad, academic, and social and acculturation issues; presenting programs of interest such as international career workshops, tax workshops, and cross-
cultural and immigration workshops; international education and statistics on international 
students in the United States; posting pertinent information to students through email and 
the OIE website, and conducting orientation and pre-departure programs. 
14.1.8  Veterans and Military Community 
http://www.cmu.edu/veterans/  
Military veterans are a vital part of the Carnegie Mellon University community. Graduate 
students can find information on applying for veteran education benefits, campus services, 
veteran’s groups at CMU, and non-educational resources through the Veterans and Military 
Community website. There are also links and connections to veteran resource in the Pittsburgh 
community. The ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator can be reached at  uro-
vaedbenefits@andrew.cmu.edu or 412-268-8747. 
14.1.9  Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline 
https://www.cmu.edu/hr/resources/ethics-hotline.html  
The health, safety and well-being of the university community are top priorities at Carnegie 
Mellon University. CMU provides a hotline that  all members of the university community 
should use to confidentially report suspected unethical activity relating to areas below:  
 Academic and Student Life 
 Bias Reporting 
 Environmental Health and Safety 
 Financial Matters 
 High-Risk Incident 
 Human Resource Related 
 Information Systems 
 Research 
 Threat of Business Interruption 
 Threat of Violence or Physical Harm 
 Title IX 
 
Students, faculty and staff can  anonymously file a report by calling 877-700-7050 or 
visiting www.reportit.net (user name: tartans; password: plai d). All submissions are reported to 
appropriate university personnel.  
The hotline is NOT an emergency service. For emergencies, call University Police at 412-
268-2323. 
14.2 Key Offices for Academic & Research Support 
46 
 14.2.1  Computing and Information Resources 
www.cmu.edu/computing  
Computing Services maintains and supports computing resources for the campus community, 
including the campus wired and wireless networks, printing, computer labs, file storage, email 
and software catalog. As members of this community , we are all responsible  for the security of 
these shared resources. Be sure to review the Safe Computing 
(https://www.cmu.edu/computing/safe/ ) section and the University Computing Policy 
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/information-technology/computing.html ) 
 
Visit the Computing Services website ( https://www.cmu.edu/computing/ ) to learn more. For 
assistance the Computing Services Help Cent er is available at 412-268-4357 (HELP) or it-
help@cmu.edu .  
14.2.2  Student Academic Success Center 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/  
Student Academic Support Programs 
Tartan Scholars 
 The Tartan Scholars program was created to provide support for limited resourced 
students through an intentional first year undergraduate experience with the goals of 
enhancing the cohort’s skill and community building through a lens of self -authorship, 
growth mindset, and a sense of belonging. As part of the Student Academic Success 
Center, Tartan Scholars are invited to join the University and participate in summer 
initiatives and pre-orientation activities prior to their first year at the University.  
 
 There are opportunities for graduate students  to serve as accountability, learning, or 
development partners, workshop facilitators , and presenters. Contact Diane Hightower 
at ddhighto@andrew.cmu.edu  for more details. 
 
Learning Support 
 Supplemental Instruction:  Supplemental Instruction (SI) is an academic support model 
that utilizes peer-assisted study sessions. The SI program provides  regularly scheduled 
review sessions on course materials outside the classroom. SI is a non-remedial approach 
to learning as the program targets high-risk  courses and is available in select courses 
based on data related to past student performance and feasibility.  
 Peer Tutoring:  Weekly Tutoring Appointments are offered in a one-on-one and small 
group format to students from any discipline who need assistance with a course that may 
not be supported by our other services. Weekly appointments give students the 
opportunity to interact regularly with the same tutor to facilitate  deeper understanding 
 of concepts. Students can register online thro ugh the Student Academic Success website.   
 Academic Coaching: Academic Coaching provides holistic one-on-one peer support and 
group workshops to help students find and implement their conditions for success.  We 
assist students in improving time management , productive habits, organization, stress 
management, and study skills.  Students wi ll request support through the Academic 
Success Center website and attend in-person meetings or meet using video and audio 
conferencing technology to provide all students with support.  
 “Just in Time” Workshops:  The Student Academic Success team is available to partner 
with instructors and departments to identify skills or concepts that would benefit from 
supplemental offerings (workshops, boot cam ps) to support students’ academic success 
and learning.  We are eager to help convene  and coordinate outside of the classroom 
skill-building opportunities that can be open to any student interested in building skill 
or reinforcing course concept mastery. 
 Study Partners:  Support for students to create and benefit from their own study groups: 
The Student Academic Success team assists student s in forming and benefiting from peer 
study groups, whereby all students can reap the benefits of peer-to-peer learning, 
student agency, and collaboration skill development. Staff from the Student Academic 
Success Center will be made available to in structors and students to assist with the 
formation of peer-led study groups.  This level of support is open to  any course where the 
instructor requests or agrees such support is appropriate and students  are interested in 
both leading and participating.   
 
Language and Cross-cultural Support  
More than 60% of graduate students at Carnegie  Mellon are international students, and others 
are nonnative speakers of English who have attended high school or undergraduate programs in 
the US. Many of these students want to hone their language and cross-cultural skills for 
academic and professional success. Stud ents can choose from sessions on  
 how to give a strong presentation,  
 writing academic emails,  
 expectations and strategies for clear academic writing,  
 how to talk about yourself as  a professional in the U.S.,  
 developing clearer pronunciation,  
 using accurate grammar, 
 building fluency, and more.  
 Students can make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist to get 
individualized coaching on language or cross-cultural issues.  
 
The Student Academic Success Center is also charged with certifying the language of 
International Teaching Assistants  (ITAs), ensuring that nonnative English speakers have the 
language proficiency needed to succeed as teaching assistants in the Carnegie Mellon classroom. 
 Students preparing to do an ITA Certification should plan to take classes offered by the 
language support team at the SASC from the beginning of their first semester. Start by 
contacting the language support team at the SA SC website or attend  a Language Support 
Orientation at the SASC or in your department.  
14.2.3  University Libraries 
www.library.cmu.edu  
The University Libraries offers a wide range of  information resources and services supporting 
graduate students in course-work, research, teac hing, and publishing. The library licenses and 
purchases books, journals, media and other needed materials in vari ous formats. Library liaisons, 
consultants and information specialists provide in -depth and professional assistance and advice 
in all-things information - including locatin g and obtaining specific resources, providing 
specialized research support, advanced training in  the use and management of data. Sign up for 
workshops and hands-on topic-spe cific sessions such as data visualization with Tableau, 
cleaning data with OpenRefine, and getting st arted with Zotero. Weekly drop-in hours for 
Digital Humanities and for Rese arch Data Research Managem ent are scheduled during the 
academic year. Start at the library home page to  find the books, journals and databases you need; 
to identify and reach out to the library liaison in  your field; to sign up for scheduled workshops; 
and to connect with consultants in scholarly pu blishing, research data management, and digital 
humanities.  
14.2.4  Research at Carnegie Mellon 
www.cmu.edu/research/index.shtml  
The primary purpose of research at the universit y is the advancement of knowledge in all fields 
in which the university is act ive.  Research is regarded as one of the university’s major 
contributions to society and as an essential elem ent in education, particularly at the graduate 
level and in faculty development. Research activitie s are governed by several university policies.  
Guidance and more general information can be found by visiting the Research at Carnegie 
Mellon website.  
14.2.5  Office of Research Integrity & Compliance 
www.cmu.edu/research-compliance/index.html  
The Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) is designed to support research at 
Carnegie Mellon University. The staff work with  researchers to ensure research is conducted 
with integrity and in accordance with federal and Pennsylvania regulation. ORIC assists 
researchers with human subject re search, conflicts of interest, responsible conduct of research, 
export controls, and institutional animal care & us e.  ORIC also provides consultation, advice, 
and review of allegations of research misconduct. 
 14.3 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety 
14.3.1  Counseling & Psychological Services 
https://www.cmu.edu/counseling/  
Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) affords the opportunity for students to talk 
privately about academic and personal concerns in a safe, confidential setting. An initial 
consultation at CaPS can help clarify the nature of the concern,  provide immediate support, and 
explore further options if needed. These may include a referral for counseling within CaPS, to 
another resource at Carnegie Mellon, or to another resource within the larger Pittsburgh 
community. CaPS also provides workshops and group sessions on mental  health related topics 
specifically for graduate students on campus. CaPS services are provided at no 
cost.  Appointments can be made in person, or by telephone at 412-268-2922.   
14.3.2  Health Services 
www.cmu.edu/HealthServices/  
University Health Services (UHS) is staffed by physicians, advanced practice clinicians and 
registered nurses who provide general medical care, allergy injections, first aid, gynecological 
care and contraception as well as on-site pharmaceuticals. The CMU Student Insurance Plan 
covers most visit fees to see the physicians and advanced practice clinicians & nurse visits.  Fees 
for prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral to the 
emergency room or specialists are the student’s responsibility and students should review the 
UHS website and their insurance plan for detailed information about the university health 
insurance requirement and fees. 
 
UHS also has a registered dietician and health promotion specialists on staff to assist students in 
addressing nutrition, drug and alcohol and other healthy lifestyle issues. In addition to providing 
direct health care, UHS administers the Student Health Insurance Program. The Student Health 
Insurance plan offers a high level of coverage in a wide network of health care providers and 
hospitals.  Appointments can be made by visiting  UHS’s website, walk-in, or by telephone, 412-
268-2157.   
14.3.3  Campus Wellness 
https://www.cmu.edu/wellness/  
At Carnegie Mellon, we believe our individual  and collective wellbein g is rooted in healthy 
connections to each other and to campus resource s. The university provides a wide variety of 
wellness, mindfulness and connectedness initiative s and resources designed to help students 
thrive inside and outside the classroom. The BeWell@CMU e-newsletter seeks to be a comprehensive resource for CM U regarding all wellness-inspired events, announcements and 
professional and personal development opportunities. Sign up for the Be Well monthly  
 newsletter via https://bit.ly/BeWellNewsletter  or by contacting the Program Director for 
Student Affairs Wellness Initiatives, at alusk@andrew.cmu.edu . 
14.3.4  Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI) 
www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/spirituality  
Carnegie Mellon is committed to the holistic growth of our students, including creating 
opportunities for spiritual and religious practice and exploration. We have relationships with 
local houses of worship from various traditions  and many of these groups are members of CMU’s 
Council of Religious Advisors. We also offer pr ograms and initiatives that cross traditional 
religious boundaries in order to increase knowledge of and appreciation for the full diversity of 
the worldview traditions. Our RSLI staff are he re to support students across the spectrum of 
religious and spiritual practice and would be mo re than happy to help you make a connection 
into a community of faith during your time at CMU.  
14.3.5  University Police 
http://www.cmu.edu/police/  
412-268-2323 (emergency only), 412-268-6232 (non-emergency) 
The University Police Department is located at 300 South Craig Street (entrance is on Filmore 
Street).  The department’s services includ e police patrols and call response, criminal 
investigations, fixed officer and foot officer pa trols, event security, and crime prevention and 
education programming as well as bicycle and laptop registration.  Visit the department’s 
website for additional information about the staff, emergency phone locations, crime prevention, 
lost and found, finger print services, and annual statistic reports. 
 
Carnegie Mellon University publishes an annual  campus security and fire safety report 
describing the university’s security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault, and fire safety policies and 
containing statistics about the number and type  of crimes committed on the campus and the 
number and cause of fires in campus residence facilities during the preceding three years. 
Graduate students can obtain a copy by contacting the University Police Department at 412-
268-6232. The annual security and fire safety report is also available online at  
https://www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports/ .  
14.3.6  Shuttle and Escort Services 
Parking and Transportation coordinates the Shuttle Service and Escort Service provided for 
CMU students, faculty, and community. The Shuttle & Escort website has full information 
about these services, stops, routes, tracking and schedules.  
14.4 The WORD 
 http://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword//  
The WORD is Carnegie Mellon University’s stud ent on-line handbook and is considered a 
supplement to the department (and sometimes college) handbook. The WORD contains 
campus resources and opportunities, academic policy information and resources, community 
standards information and resources. It is designed to provide all students with the tools, 
guidance, and insights to help you achieve your  full potential as a member of the Carnegie 
Mellon community. Information about the following is included in The WORD (not an 
exhaustive list) and graduate students are encouraged to bookmark this site and refer to it 
often. University policies can also be found in full text at:  http://www.cmu.edu/policies/ .  
 
Carnegie Mellon Vision, Mission 
Statement of Assurance 
Carnegie Code 
 
Academic Standards, Policies and Procedures  
Educational Goals 
Academic and Individual Freedom  
Statement on Academic Integrity Standards for Academic & Creative Life 
Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  
Master’s Student Statute of Limitations  
Conduct of Classes Copyright Policy 
Cross-college & University Registration 
Doctoral Student Status Policy 
Evaluation & Certification of English Fluency for Instructors 
Final Exams for Graduate Courses 
Grading Policies 
Intellectual Property Policy  
Privacy Rights of Students  
   Student’s Rights 
 
 
Research 
Human Subjects in Research 
Office of Research Integrity & Compliance Office of Sponsored Programs 
Policy for Handling Allege d Misconduct of Research 
Policy on Restricted Research 
 
Tax Status of Graduate Student Awards 
 
Campus Resources & Opportunities Alumni Relations 
Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  
 Athletics, Physical Fitness & Recreation  
Carnegie Mellon ID Cards and Services  
Cohon University Center 
Copying, Printing & Mailing  
Division of Student Affairs  
Domestic Partner Registration  
Emergency Student Loan Program  
Gender Programs & Resources  
Health Services 
Dining Services 
The HUB Student Services Center 
ID Card Services Leonard Gelfand Center 
LGBTQ Resources 
Multicultural and Diversity Initiatives  Opportunities for Involvement  
Parking and Transportation Services 
Shuttle and Escort Services  
Spiritual Development  
University Police 
Student Activities 
University Stores 
 
Community Standards, Policies and Procedures Alcohol and Drugs Policy 
AIDS Policy 
Bicycle/Wheeled Transportation Policy  Damage to Carnegie Mellon Property  
Deadly Weapons 
Discriminatory Harassment 
Disorderly Conduct 
Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Policy 
Freedom of Expression Policy  
Health Insurance Policy Immunization Policy 
Missing Student Protocol  
Non-Discrimination Policy  On-Campus Emergencies  
Pets 
Political Activities 
Recycling Policy 
Riotous and Disorderly Behavior Safety Hazards 
Scheduling and Use of University Facilities  
Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault Policy  
Smoking Policy 
 Student Accounts Receivable and Collection Policy and Procedures 
Student Activities Fee 
Student Enterprises 
Workplace Threats and Violence Policy  