MCDS Handbook 23-24 AY
Appendix A 
2023-2024 
Highlighted University Resources for Graduate Students 
 
 i 
Table of Contents 
Key Resources for Graduate Student Support  1  
Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs  1  
Office of the Dean of Students  1  
The Division of Student Affairs  2  
Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion  2  
Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  3  
Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation  3  
Graduate Student Assembly  4  
Office of International Education (OIE)  4  
Veterans and Military Community  5  
Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline  5  
Policy Against Retaliation  5  
Key Offices for Academic & Research Support  6  
Computing and Information Resources  6  
Student Academic Success Center  6  
University Libraries  6  
Research at CMU  7  
Office of Research Integrity & Compliance  7  
Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety  7  
Counseling & Psychological Services  7  
Health Services  8  
Campus Wellness  8  
Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI)  8  
University Police  9  
Shuttle and Escort Services  9  
The WORD  10  
 
 
 1 7 Key Resources for Graduate Student Support  
8 Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs  
https://www.cmu.edu/graduate  
graded@cmu.edu  
The Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs provides university-wide 
support for all graduate students and academic programs, with a focus on 
supporting graduate student success at Carnegie Mellon.  Examples of 
resources offered through the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs 
include, but are not limited to:  
 Website with university resources, contact information for CMU 
programs and services, possible financial assistance and potential 
funding opportunities, and various procedural and policy information 
 Newsletter to all graduate students with information on activities, 
resources, and opportunities  
 Professional development seminars and workshops, and various 
programming and events for the graduate student community  
The Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs also works directly with the 
colleges and departments on issues related to graduate students and serve as a 
resource for developing policy and procedures.  The Office of Graduate and 
Postdoctoral Affairs partners with many other offices and organizations, such 
as the Graduate Student Assembly, to support the holistic graduate student 
educational experience.  
9 Office of the Dean of Students  
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean/  
The Office of the Dean of Students provides central leadership of the meta 
curricular experience at Carnegie Mellon including the coordination of student 
support.  Graduate students will find the enrollment information for Domestic 
Partner Registration and Parental Accommodations in the Office of the Dean of 
Students or on their website. This Office also manages the Student Emergency 
Support Funding process. There are currently three forms of support funding 
for enrolled students: emergency student loans, student parental loans, and 
the Tartan Emergency Support Fund. Inquiring students will be provided with 
additional information about the various types of funding during a 
consultation meeting with a member of the Dean of Students team. Tuition 
 
 2 costs are not eligible for Student Emergency Support funding.  
College Liaisons and the Student Support Resources team serve as additional 
resources for graduate students. College Liaisons are senior members of the 
Division of Student Affairs who work with departments and colleges 
addressing student concerns across a wide range of issues. College Liaisons are 
identified on the Important Contacts list in Student Information Online (SIO). 
The Student Support Resources team offers an additional level of support for 
students who are navigating a wide range of life events. Student Support 
Resources staff members work in partnership with campus and community 
resources to provide coordination of care and support appropriate to each 
student’s situation.  
10 The Division of Student Affairs  
The Division of Student Affairs includes (not an exhaustive list):  
 Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation 
 Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)  
 Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion  
 Cohon University Center  
 Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)  
 Dining Services  
 Office of Community Standards and Integrity (OCSI)  
 Office of Student Leadership, Involvement, and Civic Engagement 
(SLICE)  
 University Health Services (UHS)  
 Wellness Initiatives  
11 Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion  
https://www.cmu.edu/student-diversity/  
Diversity and inclusion have a singular place among the values of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion actively 
cultivates a strong, diverse and inclusive community capable of living out these 
values and advancing research, creativity, learning and development that 
changes the world.  
The Center offers resources to enhance an inclusive and transformative 
 
 3 student experience in dimensions such as access, success, campus climate and 
intergroup dialogue. Additionally, the Center supports and connects 
historically underrepresented students and those who are first in their family 
to attend college in a setting where students’ differences and talents are 
appreciated and reinforced, both at the graduate and undergraduate level. 
Initiatives coordinated by the Center include, but are not limited to:  
 First generation/first in family to attend college programs 
 LGBTQ+ Initiatives  
 Race and ethnically focused programs, including Inter-University 
Graduate Students of Color Series (SOC) and PhD SOC Network  
 Women’s empowerment programs, including Graduate Women’s 
Gatherings (GWGs)  
12 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  
https://www.cmu.edu/disability-resources/  
The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University has a 
continued mission to provide physical, digital, and programmatic access to 
ensure that students with disabilities have equal access to their educational 
experience.  The Office works to ensure that qualified individuals receive 
reasonable accommodations as guaranteed by the Americans with Disabilities 
Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Students who 
would like to receive accommodations can begin the process through Disability 
Resources' secure online portal or email access@andrew.cmu.edu to begin the 
interactive accommodation Process. 
Students with physical, sensory, cognitive, or emotional disabilities are 
encouraged to self-identify with the Office of Disability Resources and request 
needed accommodations. Any questions about the process can be directed to 
access@andrew.cmu.edu, or call (412) 268- 6121.  
13 Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation  
https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/  
The Eberly Center offers a wide variety of confidential, consultation services 
and professional development programs to support graduate students as 
teaching assistants or instructors of record during their time at Carnegie 
Mellon University and as future faculty members at other institutions. 
Regardless of one's current or future teaching context and duties, Eberly’s goal 
is to disseminate evidence-based teaching strategies in ways that are accessible 
 
 4 and actionable. Programs and services include campus-wide Graduate Student 
Instructor Orientation events and our Future Faculty Program, both of which 
are designed to help participants be effective and efficient in their teaching 
roles. The Eberly Center also assists departments in creating and conducting 
customized programs to meet the specific needs of their graduate student 
instructors. Specific information about Eberly Center support for graduate 
students is found at:  
https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/graduatestudentsupport/  
14 Graduate Student Assembly  
https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/  
The Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) is the branch of Carnegie Mellon 
Student Government that represents and advocates for the diverse interests of 
all graduate students at CMU. GSA is composed of representatives from the 
different graduate programs and departments who want to improve the 
graduate student experience at the different levels of the university. GSA is 
funded by the Student Activities Fee from all graduate students. GSA passes 
legislation, allocates student activities funding, advocates for legislative action 
locally and in Washington D.C. on behalf of graduate student issues and needs, 
and otherwise acts on behalf of all graduate student interests. GSA’s recent 
accomplishments are a testament to their making a difference, and steps to 
implementing the vision laid out by the strategic plan.  
https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/about-the-gsa/strategic-plan.html  
GSA offers an expanding suite of social programming on and off-campus to 
bring graduate students from different departments together and build a sense 
of community. GSA is the host of the Graduate Student Lounge on the 3rd floor 
of the Cohon University Center. GSA also maintains a website of graduate 
student resources on and off-campus. GSA continues to rely on student 
feedback to improve the graduate student experience at CMU. Feel free to 
contact them at gsa@cmu.edu  to get involved, stop by their office in the Cohon 
University Center Room 304 or become a representative for your department. 
15 Office of International Education (OIE)  
https://www.cmu.edu/oie/  
Carnegie Mellon hosts international graduate and undergraduate students who 
come from more than 90 countries. The Office of International Education (OIE) 
is the liaison to the University for all non-immigrant students and scholars, as 
well the repository for study abroad opportunities. OIE provides many services 
 
 5 including: advising on personal, immigration, study abroad, academic, and 
social and acculturation issues; presenting programs of interest such as 
international career workshops, tax workshops, and cross-cultural and 
immigration workshops; international education and statistics on international 
students in the United States; posting pertinent information to students 
through email and the OIE website and conducting orientation and pre-
departure programs.  
16 Veterans and Military Community  
https://www.cmu.edu/veterans/  
Military veterans are a vital part of the Carnegie Mellon University community. 
Graduate students can find information on applying for veteran education 
benefits, campus services, veteran’s groups at CMU, and non-educational 
resources through the Veterans and Military Community website. There are 
also links and connections to veteran resource in the Pittsburgh community. 
The ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator can be reached at  
urovaedbenefits@andrew.cmu.edu  or 412-268-8747.  
17 Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline  
https://www.cmu.edu/hr/resources/ethics-hotline.html 
The health, safety and well-being of the university community are top 
priorities at Carnegie Mellon University. CMU provides a hotline that all 
members of the university community should use to confidentially report 
suspected unethical activity, violations of university policy, or violations of 
law. Students, faculty and staff can anonymously file a report by calling 1-844-
587-0793 or visiting https://cmu.ethicspoint.com/ . All submissions are reported to 
appropriate university personnel and handled discreetly. 
The hotline is NOT an emergency service. For emergencies, call University 
Police at 412-268-2323. 
18 Policy Against Retaliation  
It is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University to protect from retaliation any 
individual who makes a good faith report of a suspected violation of any 
applicable law or regulation, university Policy or procedure, any contractual 
obligation of the university, and any report made pursuant to the Carnegie 
Mellon University Code of Business Ethics and Conduct.  
Additional details regarding the Policy Against Retaliation are available at: 
 https://www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-governance/whistleblower.html  
 
 6 19 Key Offices for Academic & Research Support  
20 Computing and Information Resources  
https://www.cmu.edu/computing/  
Computing Services maintains and supports computing resources for the 
campus community, including the campus wired and wireless networks, 
printing, computer labs, file storage, email and software catalog. As members 
of this community, we are all responsible for the security of these shared 
resources. Be sure to review the Safe Computing 
(https://www.cmu.edu/computing/safe/ ) section and the University Computing Policy 
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/information-technology/computing.html )  
Visit the Computing Services website  (https://www.cmu.edu/computing/ ) to learn more. For 
assistance the Computing Services Help Center is available at 412-268-4357 (HELP) or  
ithelp@cmu.edu .  
21 Student Academic Success Center  
https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/ 
The Student Academic Success Center’s (SASC) work to support success focuses on creating 
spaces for students to engage in their coursework and approach to learning through many 
group and individual program options.  SASC supports student success by providing 
academic coaching, subject-specific tutoring, effective communication strategies, 
accommodations for students with disabilities, and language support for multilingual 
learners. SASC engages with faculty and staff to improve the coordination and professional 
development for academic advisors. Visit the SASC website for more information about 
services offered in areas such as communication and language support; language and cross-
cultural support; and learning support.   
22 University Libraries  
https://www.library.cmu.edu/  
The University Libraries offers a wide range of information, resources, and 
services supporting graduate students in coursework, research, teaching, and 
publishing. The library licenses and purchases books, journals, media, and 
other needed materials in various formats. Library liaisons, consultants, and 
information specialists provide in-depth and professional assistance and 
advice in all-things information, including: 
 Locating and obtaining specific resources 
 
 7  Providing specialized research support 
 Advanced training in the use and management of data 
Sign up for workshops and hands-on topic-specific sessions such as data 
visualization with Tableau, cleaning data with OpenRefine, and getting started 
with Zotero. Weekly drop-in hours for Digital Humanities and for Research 
Data Research Management are scheduled during the academic year. Start at 
the library home page to find the books, journals, and databases you need; to 
identify and reach out to the library liaison in your field; to sign up for 
scheduled workshops; and to connect with consultants in scholarly publishing, 
research data management, and digital humanities.  
23 Research at CMU  
https://www.cmu.edu/research/  
The primary purpose of research at the university is the advancement of 
knowledge in all fields in which the university is active. Research is regarded 
as one of the university’s major contributions to society and as an essential 
element in education, particularly at the graduate level and in faculty 
development. Research activities are governed by several university policies. 
Guidance and more general information are found by visiting the Research at 
Carnegie Mellon website.  
24 Office of Research Integrity & Compliance  
https://www.cmu.edu/research-compliance/  
The Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) is designed to support 
research at Carnegie Mellon University. The staff work with researchers to 
ensure research is conducted with integrity and in accordance with federal and 
Pennsylvania regulation. ORIC assists researchers with human subject 
research, conflicts of interest, responsible conduct of research, export 
controls, and institutional animal care & use. ORIC also provides consultation,  
advice, and review of allegations of research misconduct.  
25 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety  
26 Counseling & Psychological Services  
https://www.cmu.edu/counseling/  
Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) affords the opportunity for 
students to talk privately about academic and personal concerns in a safe, 
confidential setting. An initial consultation at CaPS can help clarify the nature 
 
 8 of the concern, provide immediate support, and explore further options if 
needed. These may include a referral for counseling within CaPS, to another 
resource at Carnegie Mellon, or to another resource within the larger 
Pittsburgh community. CaPS also provides workshops and group sessions on 
mental health related topics specifically for graduate students on campus. 
CaPS services are provided at no cost. Appointments can be made in person, or 
by telephone at 412-268-2922.  
27 Health Services  
https://www.cmu.edu/HealthServices/  
University Health Services (UHS) is staffed by physicians, advanced practice 
clinicians and registered nurses who provide general medical care, allergy 
injections, first aid, gynecological care, and contraception as well as on-site 
pharmaceuticals. The CMU Student Insurance Plan covers most visit fees to see 
the physicians and advanced practice clinicians & nurse visits. Fees for 
prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral 
to the emergency room or specialists are the student’s responsibility and 
students should review the UHS website and their insurance plan for detailed 
information about the university health insurance requirement and fees.  
UHS also has a registered dietician and health promotion specialists on staff to 
assist students in addressing nutrition, drug and alcohol and other healthy 
lifestyle issues. In addition to providing direct health care, UHS administers 
the Student Health Insurance Program. The Student Health Insurance plan 
offers a high level of coverage in a wide network of health care providers and 
hospitals. Appointments can be made by visiting UHS’s website, walk-in, or by 
telephone, 412-268-2157.  
28 Campus Wellness  
https://www.cmu.edu/wellness/  
At Carnegie Mellon, we believe our individual and collective well-being is 
rooted in healthy connections to each other and to campus resources. The 
university provides a wide variety of wellness, mindfulness and connectedness 
initiatives and resources designed to help students thrive inside and outside 
the classroom.  
29 Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI)  
https://www.cmu.edu/wellbeing/resources/religious-spiritual/index.html 
Carnegie Mellon is committed to the holistic growth of our students, including 
 
 9 creating opportunities for spiritual and religious practice and exploration. 
RSLI has relationships with local houses of worship from various traditions 
and many of these groups are members of CMU’s Council of Religious 
Advisors. They also offer programs and initiatives that cross traditional 
religious boundaries in order to increase knowledge of and appreciation for 
the full diversity of the worldview traditions. RSLI staff are available to support 
students across the spectrum of religious and spiritual practice and would be 
more than happy to help you make a connection into a community of faith 
during your time at CMU.  
30 University Police  
https://www.cmu.edu/police/  
x2323  
The University Police Department is located at 4551 Filmore Street     . The 
department’s services include police patrols and call response, criminal 
investigations, fixed officer and foot officer patrols, event security, and crime 
prevention and education programming as well as bicycle and laptop 
registration. Visit the department’s website for additional information about 
the staff, emergency phone locations, crime prevention, lost and found, 
fingerprint services, and annual statistic reports. Carnegie Mellon University 
publishes an annual campus security and fire safety report describing the 
university’s security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault, and fire safety policies.  
The report also contains statistics about the number and type of crimes 
committed on the campus and the number and cause of fires in campus 
residence facilities during the preceding three years. Graduate students can 
obtain a copy by contacting the University Police Department at x2323. The 
annual security and fire safety report is also available online at:  
https://www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports/  
31 Shuttle and Escort Services  
https://www.cmu.edu/parking/transport/ 
Parking and Transportation coordinates the Shuttle Service and Escort Service 
provided for CMU students, faculty, and community. The Shuttle & Escort 
website has full information about these services, stops, routes, tracking and 
schedules.  
  
 
 1032 The WORD  
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/ 
The WORD is Carnegie Mellon University’s online student handbook and 
serves as the foundation for the department (and sometimes college) 
handbook. The WORD contains university-wide academic policy information 
and resources, community policies and resources, and describes the university 
level procedures used to review possible violations of these standards. It is 
designed to provide all students with the tools, guidance, and insights to help 
you achieve your full potential as a member of the Carnegie Mellon 
community. Graduate students are encouraged to bookmark this site and refer 
to it often. University policies can also be found in full text at: 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/ . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 