MCDS Handbook 23-24 AY  
3 MCDS Degree Completion and Certification  
This section describes the various rules and regulations that determine the attainment of 
a MCDS degree by the student. 
3.1 CMU Degree Completion and Statute of Limitations 
Carnegie Mellon graduate students are expected to complete their degree requirements 
within the standard length of time for their program of study as outlined in the relevant 
Graduate Student Handbook. Standard program lengths for graduate students vary 
significantly – ranging from two semesters for some full-time master’s programs to 
several or more years for doctoral programs. Upon completion of the graduate program 
degree requirements, the degree will be certified by the student’s academic program in 
the semester in which the student completes the requirements. 
Early Completion 
Graduate students who consider the completion of all degree requirements in less than 
the standard length of time for their program of study may consult with their degree-granting program or department to determine if early degree certification is allowed and 
under what circumstances. 
Extended or Longer-than-Standard Completion 
Longer-than-standard degree completion may occur due to academic interruptions in 
making progress toward the degree as defined by the academic program, interruptions 
of full-time study or progress towards the degree due to serious, documented medical 
issues, or other unusual or unforeseen circumstances. Master’s students who require 
longer than the standard time to complete their degree requirements are expected to 
remain in close contact with their graduate program and will be certified at the end of the 
semester in which they have completed their degree requirements.  
Policy on Master’s Student Statute of Limitations 
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/masters-students-statute-of-
limitations.html   
 
See the above link regarding guidelines and restrictions which place an upper limit on 
the maximum length of time allowable for master’s degree completion and certification. 
Additional Guidance for Students 
Program of study. Students seeking guidance about their program of study and degree 
requirements should consult with their academic advisor and/or appropriate associate 
dean. 
 
Financial aid and student account 
Students are expected to make normal progress toward their degree to graduate within 
the standard timeframe for their program of study. Under U.S. Federal Title IV 
regulations, student eligibility for federal financial aid is contingent upon enrollment in 
and successful completion of courses that are counted as credit toward their current 
degree program. To receive the maximum amount of federal financial aid for which they 
may be eligible, students must enroll each semester in at least 36 units that count toward 
their current degree level. (See separate guidance regarding integrated degree 
completion.) Students should consult with their designated college liaison in The HUB 
regarding billing and financial aid, particularly for early completion, longer-than-
standard completion, or integrated undergraduate and master’s degree programs. 
 
International students   
Immigration status for students in F-1 and J-1 non-immigrant status is tied to making 
normal progress toward completing degree requirements. Therefore, F-1 and J-1 
students who are considering completing their degree requirements early, anticipating 
longer-than-standard completion, or moving from an undergraduate to a graduate 
student classification (integrated undergraduate-graduate study) should consult with 
their designated advisor in the Office of International Education (OIE) to ensure 
compliance with immigration regulations. 
 
3.2 Full-time Status 
All MCDS students are expected to enroll full-time (at present, there is no option to pursue 
the degree as a part-time student). To be considered a full-time student, a student must 
be registered for, and complete, a minimum of 36 units in every Fall and Spring semester. 
All international students are required by US Federal law to maintain full-time status. 
Students can have no more than one (1) remote course counting toward the 36 units used 
to satisfy full-time enrollment. Failure to maintain full-time status will result in loss of a 
student visa (and, therefore, “permit of stay”). All students having a Stafford Loan are 
required to maintain full-time status. 
 
3.3 MCDS Degree Enrollment Process and Related Information 
3.3.1 Duration of the degree program 
The MCDS degree must be completed within five (5) years from the time that the student 
matriculates into the program. 
 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/masters-students-statute-of-
limitations.html  
 
As outlined in the Master’s Students Statute of Limitations (see link above), students will 
complete all requirements for the master’s degree within a maximum of seven years from 
original matriculation as a master’s student, or less if required by a more restrictive 
department, school or college policy. Once this time-to-degree limit has lapsed, the 
person may resume work towards a master’s degree only if newly admitted to a currently 
offered master’s degree program under criteria determined by that program. 
 
Under extraordinary circumstances, such as leave of absence, military or public service, 
family or parental leave, or temporary disability, a school or college may, upon the 
relevant department's recommendation and with the written approval of the dean (or 
designate), defer the lapse for a period commensurate with the duration of that 
interruption. Students who are pursuing a master’s degree as part-time students for all 
semesters of their program, as approved by their program, may also appeal to their 
program or department for extension of the time to degree limit. 
 
3.3.2 Residency requirements 
There is no formal residence requirement. However, most courses in the program are 
taught on campus without an option for distance education. Students enrolled in in-
person course sections (IPR) are expected to attend all class meetings in person. 
3.3.3 Degree Certification: Course requirements and related policies/protocols 
 
 14 In order to receive the MCDS degree, students must have a Quality Point Average 
(QPA) of 3.0. Completion of the degree is based on completing courses in the core 
curriculum, the MCDS seminar, electives and capstone project. 
 The capstone project consists of students working at CMU on a research project, 
or on an industry-sponsored project. 
 The student must complete 144 eligible units of study. This includes eight core and 
concentration courses, two 12-unit seminar courses and two 12-unit capstone 
courses. All students complete a common MCDS core in their first two semesters, 
consisting of five courses. All students must also complete at least one 
concentration, consisting of three courses in one of three areas: Analytics, 
Systems, or Human-Centered Data Science. The remaining elective course can be 
any course with number 600 or above chosen from the SCS course catalog. Any 
additional non-prerequisite units taken beyond the 144 units are also considered 
electives. 
 To maintain full-time enrollment status, a student must enroll in a minimum of 36 
course units per semester. A student may not take more than 60 units per 
semester, without permission from their academic advisor. Students must 
maintain full-time enrollment status (minimum of 36 units) in their final semester. 
3.3.4 Prerequisite Core Course 
All MCDS students are expected to pass the 11-637 Foundations of Computational Data 
Science course by the end of their first semester. Each student must pass 11-637 with a 
grade of “B” or better.  
3.3.5 Plan of study 
The degree consists of two timing options based on the length of time the student spends 
working on the degree. The student chooses their timing at the start of the degree 
program (for visa requirements). Changes in timing are possible with the approval of the 
Director of the degree program and successful visa extension application with CMU’s 
Office of International Education. Note that all degree options consist of the same amount 
of coursework: 
 
 
 Professional Preparation Track – a 16-month degree consisting of study for Fall 
and Spring semesters, a summer internship, and Fall semester of study. Each 
semester consists of a minimum of 48 units of study. This timing is typical for most 
students. The student graduates in December. 
 Research Preparation Track – a 20-month degree consisting of study for Fall and 
Spring semesters, a summer internship, and a second year of Fall and Spring 
study. Each semester consists of a minimum of 36 units of study. This timing is 
designed for students interested in extending their time at CMU for developing 
applied research skills in preparation for further graduate study or research-
oriented employment. Note that the per-semester course load is lower, but the 
total cost is higher since four semesters of tuition are paid. This timing is also 
 
 15recommended for students interested in pursuing a PhD after graduation. The 
student graduates in May. 
3.3.6.1 MCDS Curriculum 
All MCDS students must complete 144 units of graduate study which satisfy the 
following curriculum: 
 11-637 - Foundations of Computational Data Science 
 Four (4) additional MCDS Core Courses (10-601 Introduction to Machine 
Learning; 05-839 Interactive Data Science; 15-619 Cloud Computing; 11-631 Data 
Science Seminar; 48 units) 
 Three courses (3) from one area of concentration curriculum (36 units) 
 Three (3) MCDS Capstone courses (11-634, 11-635 and 11-632) (36 units) 
 One (1) Elective: any graduate level course 600 and above in the School of 
Computer Science (12 units) 
 
3.3.6.2 Common MCDS Core Courses 
All MCDS students are required to complete four common core courses in their first two 
semesters: 
 10-601 - Machine Learning 
 15-619 - Cloud Computing 
 05-839 - Interactive Data Science 
 11-631 - Data Science Seminar 
 
3.3.6.3 Areas of Concentration 
In addition to the common MCDS core, all students must complete at least one area of 
concentration, which consists of three courses in Analytics, Systems, or Human-
Centered Data Science. Students consult with their academic advisor and choose one or 
more areas of concentration during their first semester, in preparation for enrolling in 
Spring classes. 
 
 
 Analytics concentration: 
o One (1) Machine Learning course 
o One (1) Software Systems course 
o One (1) big data course 
 Systems concentration: 
o 15-513 Introduction to Computer Systems (elective, prerequisite for many 
advanced Systems courses) 
o Three (3) systems project courses 
 Human-Centered Data Science concentration: 
o One (1) Methods course 
o Two (2) HCI courses 
 
 16 
A detailed list of courses satisfying each concentration is contained in the MCDS Program 
FAQ. 
 
3.3.6.4 MCDS Capstone Courses 
All MCDS students complete three Capstone courses: 
 11-634 - Capstone Planning Seminar (12 units) 
 11-635 - Capstone Research (12 units) 
 11-632 - Data Science Capstone (12 units) 
 
MCDS Program Learning Outcomes  
 
 Design, implement and evaluate the use of analytic algorithms on sample 
datasets.  
 Explain how a machine-learning model is developed for and evaluated on real 
world datasets. 
 Design and execute experimental data collection and present resulting analyses 
using appropriate user experience (UX) techniques including interactive data 
visualizations. 
 Apply and customize analytics, systems and human-centered data science 
techniques to application-specific data science requirements and objectives. 
 Identify tradeoffs among data science techniques (analytics, systems and/or 
human-centered) and contrast design alternatives, within the context of specific 
data science application domains. 
 Survey, interpret and comparatively criticize state of the art research talks and 
papers, with emphasis on constructive improvements. 
 Organize, execute, report on, and present a real world data science project in 
collaboration with other researchers/programmers. 
 
Depending on the concentration, additional learning outcomes are emphasized: 
 
Analytics.  Students electing to complete the Analytics concentration will also learn to:  
 
 Design, implement and evaluate a software system and machine-learning model 
on real world datasets at real world scale.  
 Analyze and document data science requirements in different application 
domains and survey as well as critique state of the art solutions for those 
requirements. 
 
Systems.  Students electing to complete the Systems concentration will also learn to:  
 
 
 17 Implement and evaluate complex, scalable data science systems, with emphasis 
on providing experimental evidence for design decisions. 
 Anticipate and avert structural and/or implementation problems with systems 
design, especially with scaling and tail distributions. 
 
HCDS. Students electing to complete the Human-Centered Data Science (HCDS) 
concentration will also learn to:  
 
 Design, implement and evaluate a user experience prototype to allow for clear 
understanding of data science solutions. 
 Apply social and behavioral research methods to data science problems to 
understand the human aspects of data collection and analysis. 
  
Throughout their coursework, students will take introductory courses on all those topics, 
practice them in advanced courses and seminars and demonstrate all learned skills in 
their Capstone project and internship. Students are encouraged to choose elective 
courses in the curriculum according to their professional goals and mastery of the main 
subjects.  
 
3.3.10 Capstone project 
The capstone project consists of students working in a team or individually on a project. 
The capstone project integrates the educational experience of the student. A capstone 
project is typically a CMU research project, or an industry sponsored project; 
occasionally students define capstone topics through communication with the faculty. 
Students interested in defining their own capstone topics should discuss with the MCDS 
faculty as early as possible. The capstone project is a great opportunity for a student (or 
student team) to “show off” their unique skills and accomplishments. Capstone projects 
have been instrumental in the hiring decisions for several employers. 
 
 
3.3.11 Elective courses 
Electives can be any graduate level course (numbered 600 or above) in the School of 
Computer Science. Students use their elective courses to enhance study in an area of 
interest or to explore new areas of interest. 
3.3.12 Undergraduate courses 
Undergraduate courses are taken to address an area of weakness in the student’s prior 
preparation. Undergraduate courses (numbered less than or equal to 599) may be taken 
pass/fail or for credit but do not count toward the 144 units of eligible study: The course 
and course grade will appear on the student’s transcript, and the course grade will factor 
as part of the student’s QPA. 
 
 183.3.13 Independent study course 
Independent study courses allow students to cover study of a particular area of interest, 
and are used when no formal course is available in a given subject area. Students who are 
interested in continuing to a Ph.D. degree often enroll in Independent Study, since it 
offers the opportunity to perform research directly with a faculty member. Independent 
study courses are considered electives. 
 
Each independent study course must be advised and approved by at least one faculty 
member. Agreement to supervise an independent study course is purely voluntary on the 
part of the faculty member. It is the duty of the student, therefore, to negotiate the terms 
and conditions of the independent study with the pertinent faculty members of CMU who 
will be supervising the study. These individuals are referred to as “independent study 
supervisors.” Once the student finds someone who agrees to supervise such a course, 
he/she must: 
 
 
1. Students wishing to take an independent study must request approval from their 
academic advisor and complete proposal before the first day of classes in a given 
semester: 
2. Enter into an agreement with the independent study supervisor that includes 
course expectations, including deliverables. 
3. Secure the “Independent Study Contract Form” from the MCDS administrator. 
4. Complete the form, provide a brief description of the work to be done, including 
deliverables and how they will be graded. 
5. Secure signatures of both the student and the supervisor. Return the form to the 
MCDS administrator in order to obtain approval for the independent study from the 
Director. 
 
Independent study contracts must be submitted no later than on the last day of the first 
week of classes in a given semester. 
3.3.14 Double counting courses 
No course may be used to complete two MCDS degree requirements, nor may a course 
satisfy requirements in two degree programs. 
3.3.15 Courses outside of the School of Computer Science 
Elective courses in other Schools at Carnegie Mellon may be taken with prior permission 
of the Director. 
3.3.16 Grades 
All courses offered by the SCS CMU are graded on the 4.3 grading standard  
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Grades.html.  MCDS students must maintain a 
3.0 overall average each semester to remain in good standing. A student must obtain a B- 
or better grade in all courses, which count towards core requirements. If a student 
 
 19receives a C- or better, that course may count as an elective towards the degree 
requirements. All courses must receive a letter grade; courses taken pass/fail do not 
count towards the MCDS degree. 
 
Enrollment Services is the only University office that can provide an official letter of 
enrollment, official transcript and enrollment verification. Enrollment verification can 
be requested online through The HUB at: https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/student-
records/verifications/  
3.3.17 Student Review, Academic Probation and Academic Actions 
The MCDS program conducts an academic progress review at the conclusion of each 
semester in order to monitor individual student progress towards graduation regarding 
the fulfillment of curricular requirements, course grades, and academic integrity. Should 
a student’s effort fall below the acceptable level of academic performance and/or fail to 
meet standards and policies established by Carnegie Mellon University, the student may 
be dismissed from the program. 
 
Infractions  
 
After each academic progress review, each student will receive a letter indicating the 
result of the review and their standing in the program. If applicable, the letter will also 
note the following infractions by the student in the given semester: 
 Cumulative QPA is below 3.0, resulting in the student being put on Academic 
Probation  (see below) 
 Cumulative QPA is below 2.6, resulting in academic probation or possible 
dismissal (see below) 
 Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) deemed an infraction by the MCDS committee 
(see 3.7.2) 
 
Minimum QPA and Academic Probation  
 
Students must maintain a cumulative QPA of 3.0 to remain in good standing with the 
program. Should a student’s overall QPA drop below 3.0 during any given semester, 
he/she will be placed on academic probation  for the following semester. In probation 
cases, the student will be required to 
 enroll in courses as advised by the academic advisor,  
 improve his/her grades to no less than an overall 3.0 QPA in the following 
semester, and  
 meet any other goal set by the advisor during that period (e.g., fulfilling a core 
course requirement).  
If a student’s cumulative QPA drops below 2.6, the student will be considered at risk of 
being unable to complete the program and will be considered for dismissal. He/she will 
be required to meet the program director to discuss his/her situation. Only if, after that 
meeting, the MCDS program committee ascertains that the student is likely to complete 
 
 20the remaining program requirements in the allotted time, the student will be allowed to 
continue his/her studies in MCDS, and dismissed otherwise. If the student is allowed to 
continue their studies, they will be placed on academic probation for the following 
semester and is subject to the requirements above. 
 
Dismissal  
 
A student may be dismissed from the program for any of the following cases: 
 If the student has been put on academic probation and failed to meet the remedial 
requirements set by the advisor in the following semester, or committed an 
Academic Integrity Violation deemed an infraction by the MCDS committee while 
on academic probation 
 If the student has a cumulative QPA of 2.6 or lower and the MCDS program 
committee does not ascertain that the student is likely to complete the remaining 
program requirements in the allotted time 
 If the student has committed two Academic Integrity Violation deemed infractions 
by the MCDS committee (see 3.7.2) 
 If the student has committed an Academic Integrity Violation infraction where the 
violation is deemed to be sufficiently egregious as determined by the MCDS 
program committee 
 If the student has been found to infringe a University Policy, where such 
infringement is deemed grounds for dismissal 
 
Students who realize that one of these situations may apply to them are strongly 
encouraged to meet with the academic advisor to discuss a plan to mitigate the situation. 
Students who find they are struggling in the program will have the best chances of success 
if they communicate early and often with the academic advisor. 
 
3.3.18 Incomplete grades 
Carnegie Mellon University students are expected to complete a course during the 
academic semester in which the course was taken. However, if the instructor agrees, a 
grade of “I” (incomplete) may be given when a student has been unable to complete the 
work of a course. However, the work completed up to that date must be of passing quality 
and the grade of incomplete provides no undue advantage to that student over other 
students. 
 
By awarding an “I” grade, an instructor must specify the requirements for the completion 
of the work and designate a default letter grade in the event that the student fails to 
complete the remaining work. 
 
Students must complete the required course work by no later than the end of the 
following academic semester or sooner if required by the instructor. 
 
 
 21The instructor must record the permanent course grade by the last day of the 
examination period of the following semester, or the Registrar will automatically assign 
the default grade. 
 
If further work has not been completed after one semester and a default grade is 
rendered, the default grade will become the grade of record. 
3.3.19 Change of grades and missing grades 
If a grade has been assigned in error, it can be changed to a different permanent grade. 
The procedure for changing a grade is as follows: 
 Discuss the matter with the course instructor; provide evidence that the grade issued 
was not the grade earned. 
 If the instructor agrees, the student should contact the program administrator to 
process a Change of Grade Form in order to correct the grade that was issued in error. 
Generally, the instructor is the final authority for a course grade. 
 If a grade has not been assigned, please notify the course instructor for the 
completion of a Missing Grade Form. 
3.3.20 Qualifying examinations and procedures (or equivalent) 
None required. 
3.3.21 Thesis/dissertation 
None required. 
3.3.22 On transfer to another program 
If the requirements for the MCDS degree have not been completed when a student leaves 
to pursue another academic program, the degree will not be awarded. Completion of the 
MCDS degree does not guarantee admission into any doctoral degree program at 
Carnegie Mellon University. The courses that will be completed as part of the MCDS may 
serve to enhance one’s application to these programs but will in no way insure 
admittance. 
3.3.23 Intellectual property policy 
The MCDS degree program adheres to Carnegie Mellon University policy on intellectual 
property: http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/IntellProp.html  
3.3.24 Teaching requirements 
None required. However, students are encouraged to apply for teaching assistant 
positions in courses where they have excelled. 
3.3.25 Language proficiency requirements 
None required. However, non-native English speakers are encouraged to take advantage 
of the various support functions provided by the Intercultural Communication Center 
(ICC) and the Global Communication Center (GCC). 
 
 223.3.26 Academic Integrity and Policies on Plagiarism and Cheating 
The university considers any form of cheating or plagiarism to be a serious violation of 
student ethics. The student is required to understand and rigorously follow only the 
permitted forms of collaboration as defined by the instructor in every class. The work 
you submit must be your own, unless you have clearly attributed it to others. You must 
not use the work of others without proper citation. And, you must not use resources, 
including other persons, except as authorized by the course or project for which you are 
submitting the work. Such conduct might be accepted or commonplace elsewhere, but it 
is not here. Be careful. Be warned. Failure to abide by these rules, even just once, can 
result in your permanent separation from the University without refund of money paid. 
Note that the policy requires the student to be informed and understand the academic 
integrity rules for every assignment or exam in a course. 
 
The MCDS program strives to produce graduates with the highest standards of academic 
integrity. Academic Integrity Violations are taken very seriously and the MCDS program 
has a zero tolerance policy for multiple Academic Integrity Violations. A single violation 
is grounds for dismissal from the graduate program if deemed sufficiently egregious as 
determined by the MCDS program committee. If a student commits a second violation, 
the expected penalty is dismissal from the graduate program (see also academic progress 
review at section 3.3.17). 
 
Please review the University Policy on Academic Integrity: 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html   
The policy includes the University expectations around academic integrity and 
provides definitions of cheating, plagiarism, and unauthorized assistance. 
 
A review of the University’s Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/academic-discipline/index.html   is also 
recommended. These procedures outline the process for investigating, reporting, and 
adjudicating violations of the University Policy on Academic Integrity. The procedures 
also outline the appeal process. 
 
3.3.27 Process for Appealing Final Grades  
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/academic/appeal-of-grades-and-academic-actions.html  
 
Final grades will be changed only in exceptional circumstances and only with the 
approval of the instructor and the department, unit or program. Grading is a matter of 
sound discretion of the instructor and final grades are rarely changed without the consent 
of the instructor who assigned the grade. The following circumstances are the unusual 
exceptions that may warrant a grade appeal: (a) the final grade assigned for a course is 
based on manifest error (e.g. a clear error such as arithmetic error in computing a grade 
or failure to grade one of the answers on an exam), or (b) the faculty or staff member who 
assigned the grade did so in violation of a University policy. 
 
 233.3.27 Teaching Assistants 
The MCDS degree does not have a teaching requirement. However, some students may 
wish to be a teaching assistant. MCDS students may petition for approval to TA up to one 
course per semester provided that they are in good academic standing (Overall QPA 3.0 
or above). 
 
As required by the English Fluency in Higher Education Act of 1990, graduate students 
are required to have a certain level of fluency in English before they can instruct in 
Pennsylvania. Through this Act, all institutions of higher education in the state are 
required to evaluate and certify the English fluency of all instructional personnel, 
including teaching assistants and interns. 
 
The full university policy can be reviewed at: 
 
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/faculty/evaluation-certification-english-fluency-
instructors.html . 
 
In addition to administering the International Teaching Assistant (ITA) Test (mandatory 
screening test for any non-native speaker of English), Language Support in the Student 
Academic Success Center helps teaching assistants who are non-native English speakers 
develop fluency and cultural understanding to teach successfully at Carnegie Mellon. 
Visit the website for additional information: https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/  
3.3.28 Internship Requirement and Search for Full Time Employment 
An internship is required for the degree program. In some cases, when a student has 
prior work experience, the Director of the degree program may waive this requirement. 
Students start searching for internships generally in the Fall and Spring semesters. Once 
the student returns from an internship in the Fall, they should immediately begin the 
search for full time employment. Extensive resources are available at 
http://www.cmu.edu/career/  including a resume submission system, a list of employers, 
on campus interviews and mock interviews, and many other resources. 
 
The Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) 
http://engineering.cmu.edu/companies/toc/  occurs every September. This conference is 
one of the main recruiting events each year. 
 
All international students are required to apply for Curricular Practical Training (CPT). 
CPT is employment that is an integral part of an established curriculum and is directly 
related to the student’s major area of study. Please visit the Office of International 
Education (OIE) link below to learn more about the CPT process: 
http://www.cmu.edu/oie/forstu/jobs.html   
 
 
 243.4 Enrollment Verification 
Enrollment Services is the only University office that can provide an official letter of 
enrollment, official transcript and enrollment verification. Enrollment verification can 
be requested online through The HUB via this link: 
http://www.cmu.edu/hub/transcripts/verifications/enrollment.html  
 
 
3.5 University Policies on Grades and Grading 
3.6.1 University Policy on Grades 
This policy offers details concerning university grading principles for students taking 
courses and covers the specifics of assigning and changing grades, grading options, 
drop/withdrawals and course repeats. It also defines the undergraduate and graduate 
grading standards. 
 
You can review the university grading policies here: 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/grading.html   
3.6.2 University Policy on Grades for Transfer Courses 
Carnegie Mellon University offers students the opportunity to take courses for credit 
through a cross-registration program (see Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education 
(PCHE) and Cross-registration below) and through the receipt of transfer credit from 
other accredited institutions. The Carnegie Mellon University transcript will include 
information on such courses as follows: Carnegie Mellon courses and courses taken 
through the university’s cross-registration program will have grades recorded on the 
transcript and be factored into the QPA. All other courses will be recorded on this 
transcript indicating where the course was taken, but without grades. Such courses will 
not be taken into account for academic actions, honors or QPA calculations. (Note: 
suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer 
credit only if their college’s and department’s policies allow this.) 
 
You can review the university policy here: 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/transfer-credit-evaluation-and-
assignment.html   
 
3.6 Academic Integrity 
3.7.1 Expectations Regarding Proper Conduct 
In the midst of self-exploration, the high demands of a challenging academic 
environment can create situations where some students have difficulty exercising good 
judgment. Academic challenges can provide many opportunities for high standards to 
evolve if students actively reflect on these challenges and if the community supports 
 
 25discussions to aid in this process. It is the responsibility of the entire community to 
establish and maintain the integrity of our university.  
 
Carnegie Mellon University educates its students to become professionals who will serve 
society with integrity. The university also creates and disseminates new knowledge and 
expressions of knowledge in ways that benefit society. Carnegie Mellon strives to serve 
the changing needs of society through the three primary goals outlined in its mission 
statement: to create and disseminate knowledge and art through research and artistic 
expression, teaching and learning and transfer to society, to serve students by teaching 
them leadership and problem-solving skills, and the values of quality, ethical behavior, 
responsibility to society and commitments to work, to pursue the advantages provided by 
a diverse community, open to the exchange of ideas, where discovery and artistic 
creativity can flourish. 
 
In any presentation, creative, artistic or research, it is the ethical responsibility of each 
student to identify the conceptual sources of the work submitted. Failure to do so is 
dishonest and is the basis for a charge of cheating or plagiarism, which is subject to 
disciplinary action.  
 
Please review the University Policy on Academic Integrity 
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html ). The 
policy includes the University expectations around academic integrity and provides 
definitions of cheating, plagiarism, and unauthorized assistance. 
 
A review of the University’s Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures 
(https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/academic-discipline/index.html ) is also 
recommended. These procedures outline the process for investigating, reporting, and 
adjudicating violations of the University Policy on Academic Integrity. The procedures 
also outline the appeal process. 
 
3.7.2 Protocol for Academic Integrity Violations 
The university has a very clear and specific protocol for responding to alleged violations 
of academic integrity. Carnegie Mellon's Academic Disciplinary Actions Overview for 
Graduate Students describes procedures and the appeal process for disciplinary actions 
against graduate students in cases of alleged academic integrity violation. 
 
For more information on disciplinary actions please see: 
 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-
affairs/theword/acad_standards/creative/disciplinary.html  
 
Further documentation on how to respond to an allegation of a violation as a graduate 
student: 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/ocsi/academic-integrity/grads.html   
 
Important Note: MCDS implements the above policy’s option of “conven[ing] a 
disciplinary hearing according to the procedures of the department/program”. We have 
adopted the following hearing procedure and “two strikes” rule: 
 If an instructor determines that an academic integrity violation has occurred, 
both the instructor and students are given the opportunity to explain the situation 
to the MCDS program committee. A written hearing by email suffices for this 
purpose. 
 The program committee then reviews all information and decides whether the 
violation is deemed an infraction (see 3.3.17), and which secondary actions are to 
be taken on the program level. 
 Two-Strike-Rule: MCDS may dismiss students upon a first AIV infraction. A 
second infraction will always lead to the offending student being dismissed from 
the program, with no exceptions. 
 
The MCDS program reserves the right to withdraw a degree even though it has been 
granted should there be discovery that the work upon which it was based or the academic 
records in support of it had been falsified. In such a case, the degree will be withdrawn 
promptly upon discovery of the falsification. The complete reference to this university 
policy is available at:  https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-
life/withdrawal-of-a-degree.html  