MCDS Handbook 23-24 AY
1 Welcome 
Welcome to the Language Technologies Institute, Master of 
Computational Data Science Program. While this handbook is specific to 
your academic experience in the department, there are several other 
resources and offices graduate students are encouraged to consult during 
their tenure at Carnegie Mellon University. Information about The Word, 
the student handbook, the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs, the 
Office of the Dean of Students, and others are included in Appendix A of 
this handbook. 
1.1 The MCDS Degree 
The MCDS Degree The Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) 
degree is a professional Master of Science degree offered by the Language 
Technologies Institute (LTI), a department in the School of Computer 
Science at Carnegie Mellon University. The MCDS degree offers students 
with a Bachelor's degree the opportunity to improve their training with 
advanced study in Computer Science and Machine Learning. We cater to 
students with basic analytic skills and a strong aptitude for mathematics, 
programming, and logical reasoning. An undergraduate degree in 
Computer Science is not required. Most students will complete the 
program in three semesters; students coming from other disciplines and 
students focus on developing applied research skills in preparation for 
further graduate study or research-oriented employment may require an 
additional fourth semester. 
 
The MCDS Program offers a core curriculum and several concentrations; 
students entering the program enroll in core courses in their first 
semester and select further courses to satisfy at least one concentration 
(see Section 3.3.6). Students construct their own course of study, in 
consultation with their academic advisor, in order to satisfy broad 
guidelines. Thus, a student may tailor their coursework in a given 
concentration to follow a particular area of emphasis. The MCDS program 
is typically a 16-month program consisting of courses, seminars, a 
required Capstone Project and a required summer internship or practical 
training. While some MCDS graduates continue on to PhD programs in the 
LTI or other leading universities, most graduates go on to jobs in 
corporate research and development laboratories. 
 
The program consists entirely of coursework and a Capstone Project, and 
no Master’s Thesis is required. All Capstone projects are structured as 
research activities and may lead to a publication. There is no Doctoral 
program in Computational Data Science. Because of the highly selective 
nature of the MCDS program and quality of the MCDS curriculum, 
performing well in the program will give a boost to a PhD application. MS 
graduates are welcome to apply to CMU PhD programs but will not receive 
preferential treatment. 
 
There are significant differences between CMU's different departments 
and degree programs in philosophical approach, procedures, policies and 
regulations. Each department issues a handbook that informs graduate 
students of their program requirements and procedures and ensures that 
students have written access to the standard information outlined below. 
This handbook describes the policies, procedures, and requirements for 
the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree. 
All policies not explicitly described in this document conform to School of 
Computer Science (SCS) policies and university policies described in The 
Word, Carnegie Mellon University Student Handbook and at the 
University Policies website. 
1.2 Vision 
Carnegie Mellon University will have a transformative impact on society 
through continual innovation in education, research, creativity, and 
entrepreneurship. 
1.3 Mission 
To create a transformative educational experience  for students focused on 
deep disciplinary knowledge; problem solving; leadership, 
communication, and interpersonal skills; and personal health and well-
being. 
To cultivate a transformative university community  committed to (a) 
attracting and retaining diverse, world-class talent; (b) creating a 
collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, where 
research, creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship can flourish; and 
(c) ensuring individuals can achieve their full potential. 
To impact society in a transformative way  — regionally, nationally, and 
globally — by engaging with partners outside the traditional borders of the 
university campus. 
1.4 MCDS Contact Information 
The people responsible for administering the MCDS degree are: 
 
Jennifer M Lucas  
Academic Program Manager 
Master of Computational Data Science  
Language Technologies Institute 
School of Computer Science  
Carnegie Mellon University 
Gates-Hillman Center 6415 
5000 Forbes Avenue, Pgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 268-9870 
Fax: (412) 268-7287 
  Carolyn Penstein Rosé, Director  
Master of Computational Data Science  
Language Technologies Institute 
School of Computer Science 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Gates-Hillman Center 5419 
5000 Forbes Avenue, Pgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 268-4525 
Fax: (412) 268-7287 
Robert Frederking  
Graduate Program Chair 
Language Technologies Institute 
School of Computer Science  
Carnegie Mellon University 
Gates-Hillman Center 6515 
5000 Forbes Avenue, Pgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 268 -6656 Mona Diab, LTI Director  
Language Technologies Institute 
School of Computer Science  
Carnegie Mellon University 
Gates-Hillman Center 5723 
5000 Forbes Avenue, Pgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 268-3669 
 
The Language Technologies Institute is located primarily on the 5th and 6th floors of the 
Gates Hillman Complex (GHC) on Carnegie Mellon’s Pittsburgh campus: 
 
Language Technologies Institute 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Gates Hillman Complex 5402, LTI 
Pittsburgh, PA 15241-3891 
 
412-268-6591 (phone) 
412-268-6298 (fax) 
http://www.lti.cs.cmu.edu/  
 
 91.5 University Policies and Expectations 
Each member of the Carnegie Mellon community must be familiar with university 
policies and guidelines. In addition to this departmental graduate student handbook, 
the following resources are available to assist you in understanding community 
expectations: 
  
The Word/Student 
Handbook:  http://www.cmu.edu/student -
affairs/theword/index .html   
Academic Integrity 
Website: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student -and-student- 
life/academic-integrity.html    
University Policies 
Website:  http://www.cmu.ed u/policies/  
 
Office of Graduate and 
Post-Doc Affairs: http://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/index.html  
Please see Appendix A for additional information about university resources. 
1.6 Carnegie Mellon University Statement of Assurance  
Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate in admission, employment or 
administration of its programs or activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, 
sex, handicap or disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, 
ancestry, belief, veteran status or genetic information. Furthermore, Carnegie Mellon 
University does not discriminate and is required not to discriminate in violation of 
federal, state or local laws or executive orders. 
 
Inquiries concerning the application of and compliance with this statement should be 
directed to the university ombudsman, Carnegie Mellon University, 5000 Forbes Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, telephone 412-268-1018. Obtain general information about 
Carnegie Mellon University by calling 412-268-2000. 
 
Carnegie Mellon University publishes an annual campus security and fire safety report. 
describing the university's security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault and fire safety 
policies, and containing statistics about the number and type of crimes committed on the 
campus, and the number and cause of fires in campus residence facilities during the 
preceding three years. You can obtain a copy by contacting the Carnegie Mellon Police 
Department at 412-268-2323. The annual security and fire safety report also is available 
online at 
www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports .  
 
Information regarding the application of Title IX, including to admission and 
employment decisions, the sexual misconduct grievance procedures and process, 
including how to file a 
report or a complaint of sex discrimination, how to file a report of sexual harassment, 
and how the university responds to such reports is available at www.cmu.edu/title-ix . The 
Title IX 
coordinator may be reached at 412-268-7125 or tix@cmu.edu . 
 
1.7 The Carnegie Mellon Code  
 
Students at Carnegie Mellon, because they are members of an academic community 
dedicated to the achievement of excellence, are expected to meet the highest standards 
of 
personal, ethical and moral conduct possible. 
 
These standards require personal integrity, a commitment to honesty without 
compromise, as well as truth without equivocation and a willingness to place the good of 
the community above the good of the self. Obligations once undertaken must be met, 
commitments kept. 
 
As members of the Carnegie Mellon community, individuals are expected to uphold the 
standards of the community in addition to holding others accountable for said standards. 
It is 
rare that the life of a student in an academic community can be so private that it will not 
affect the community as a whole or that the above standards do not apply. 
 
The discovery, advancement and communication of knowledge are not possible without 
a 
commitment to these standards. Creativity cannot exist without acknowledgment of the 
creativity of others. New knowledge cannot be developed without credit for prior 
knowledge. Without the ability to trust that these principles will be observed, an 
academic community cannot exist. 
 
The commitment of its faculty, staff and students to these standards contributes to the 
high 
respect in which the Carnegie Mellon degree is held. Students must not destroy that 
respect by their failure to meet these standards. Students who cannot meet them should 
voluntarily 
withdraw from the university. 
 
The Carnegie Mellon Code can also be found on-line at: 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/ . 