MCDS Handbook 23-24 AY
4 Academic Policies 
4.1 MCDS Academic Policies 
4.1.1 Duration of Study 
MCDS students enrolled for full-time studies are normally expected to complete the 
degree in three semesters (16 months). This includes a summer internship. 
4.1.2 Double-Dipping 
A Masters student who uses courses taken as part of another degree program (at 
Carnegie Mellon or elsewhere) toward their program requirements cannot use those 
same courses toward any other M.S. degree offered by the School of Computer Science 
without prior approval. 
4.1.3 Pass/Fail and Audit Grades 
Pass/fail and audit grades are not permitted for courses used to satisfy a degree 
requirement. Graduate students who are required to take additional undergraduate 
courses to build up the core foundations of computer science may not elect the pass/fail 
or audit option for these courses. 
4.1.4 Transfer Credit 
An equivalent graduate course previously completed at Carnegie Mellon, or another 
institution, may be permitted to satisfy one of the MCDS course requirements, with 
permission from the Director. Students must petition for transfer credit by providing 
the Program Director with the prior course syllabus and other details that may be 
required by the Director in order to make a decision. See the section on “Definition of 
transfer credit versus course exemption”. NOTE: In all cases, credit may only be 
transferred from another degree program for courses deemed “free electives” - i.e., 
courses which were not used to satisfy a core requirement or total units requirement in 
a prior degree program. 
 
All MS students are required to take a minimum of 96 units of coursework at CMU. 
4.1.5 External Internships and Job Interviewing 
MCDS students are expected to attain an external internship during the summer. 
International students must coordinate carefully with the University, due to visa 
restrictions. International students are required to consult with the Office of 
International Education for eligibility before seeking an internship/co-op or signing an 
offer contract. 
 
We caution all students to be aware of potential intellectual property (IP) implications 
with internships, and to review any IP agreements with their academic advisor before 
signing them. It is possible to lose ownership of your own inventions if they occur during 
an external internship. 
 
While it is necessary for students to travel off-campus for job interviews, it is not 
acceptable for a student to miss a course requirement or a capstone project commitment 
due to interview travel. Students should work proactively with prospective employers to 
arrange interview travel in a way that minimizes the impact on their final semester 
course work. 
4.1.6 Transferring into the MCDS Program 
Direct transfers into the MCDS program are not permitted. Students who are currently 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon who wish to transfer into the MCDS program must do so by 
applying to the MCDS program via the normal admissions process. As specified in Sec. 
4.1.4 in this document, some transfer credit and/or exemption from MCDS requirements 
may be possible on a case-by-case basis. 
4.1.7 Transferring Out of the MCDS Program 
The MCDS program does not prevent students from transferring to another degree 
program. Each degree program has its own rules about whether and when transfers into 
the program are permitted. A student that is interested in transferring out of the MCDS 
degree program should consult the handbook and Program Director of the desired 
degree program to learn whether transfers are permitted, and if so, how and when to 
request such a transfer. 
4.1.8 Statute of Limitations 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/masters-students-statute-of- 
limitations.html   
 
As outlined in the Master’s Students Statute of Limitations (link above), students will 
complete all requirements for the master’s degree within a maximum of seven years 
from original matriculation as a master’s student, or less if required by a more restrictive 
department, school or college policy. Once this time-to-degree limit has lapsed, the 
person may resume work towards a master’s degree only if newly admitted to a currently 
offered master’s degree program under criteria determined by that program. 
 
Under extraordinary circumstances, such as leave of absence, military or public service, 
family or parental leave, or temporary disability, a school or college may, upon the 
relevant department's recommendation and with the written approval of the dean (or 
designate), defer the lapse for a period commensurate with the duration of that 
interruption. Students who are pursuing a master’s degree as part-time students for all 
semesters of their program, as approved by their program, may also appeal to their 
program or department for extension of the time to degree limit. 
4.2 LTI Academic Policies 
4.2.1 “Grandfather” policy 
A student can graduate under the policies in effect at the time that the student entered 
the program; or, at the student's choice, the student can graduate under policies that are 
adopted after the student entered the program. In unusual cases, the Director may 
approve exceptions to the program requirements. 
4.2.2 Course Drop/Add/withdrawal procedures 
Students taking undergraduate and Master’s level courses must follow the procedures and 
deadlines for adding, dropping, or withdrawing from courses as identified on the 
academic calendar. Information can be found at: 
 https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/course-changes/index.html . 
 
There is a separate calendar for masters level courses.  
 
4.2.3 Courses with restricted enrollment 
MCDS students have priority for the program core courses. The MCDS program 
administrators cannot intercede with other departments to secure seats for its students 
in other courses as all departments reserve seats for their accepted students. Usually all 
remaining open seats are assigned on a first- come, first-served basis.  Students can, 
 on occasion, contact the assigned course instructor in order to plead his/her case for 
admission to the course. Admission may be granted at the discretion of the instructor. 
The policy of the department offering the course(s) is always followed. 
4.2.4 Definition of transfer credit versus course exemption 
The LTI may grant transfer credit or issue an exemption for equivalent graduate courses 
previously completed at another institution. This decision rests with the Director of the 
particular program. If a student is exempt from a required course due to prior courses or 
experience, the student can replace that course with an open elective. The student does 
not receive credit for the external course but can take any course that could normally 
count toward the degree in its place. If a student receives credit for prior coursework 
completed at CMU or elsewhere, the student receives that many units of credit, and the 
total amount of required coursework is reduced by that amount. 
4.2.5 External Employment/Consulting 
Since the MCDS program places heavy demands on student time, external employment 
and/or consulting are strongly discouraged. Exceptional students who wish to consult 
should discuss this with their advisor. International students must also have approval in 
advance from the Office of International Education (OIE) for any outside employment. 
4.2.6 Leave of Absence 
A student in good standing may be granted a LOA of at most 1 year, upon written request 
to the Program Director and with consent of the student's advisor. It is the responsibility 
of the student on LOA to contact the program administrator to apply for a return to the 
program. 
4.2.7 Withdrawal from Program 
Students may voluntarily withdraw from the MCDS program. If a student decides to 
withdraw, or is considering a withdrawal, she/he should contact the program 
administrator to schedule an advising meeting as soon as possible.  
 
The university’s general withdrawal policy can be found here: 
 
https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/leaves-and-withdrawals/   
4.2.8 Satisfactory Progress 
If a student does not make satisfactory progress each semester toward completing the 
degree, the LTI may remove the student from the program. See section on “End of 
Semester Evaluation”. In particular, students in the three-semester program who fail one 
of their first-semester MCDS core required courses are strongly encouraged to consider 
switching to the four-semester program. 
4.2.9 Winter and Summer Breaks 
 
 30Students supported by research projects or working in an on-campus internship are 
expected to remain on campus working during breaks in classes. A two-week vacation is 
typically allowed in the summer for the students who are working on campus (not 
pursuing an external internship). Supported students should arrange their winter break 
time with their supervisor. 
 
4.3 CMU Academic Policies  
4.3.1 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  
http://www.cmu.edu/education-office/disability-resources/   
The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University has a continued mission 
to provide physical, digital, and programmatic access to ensure that students with 
disabilities have equal access to their educational experience. We work to ensure that 
qualified individuals receive reasonable accommodations as guaranteed by the 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. 
Students who would like to receive accommodations can begin the process through 
Disability Resources' secure online portal  
(https://rainier.accessiblelearning.com/cmu/ ) or email access@andrew.cmu.edu to 
begin the interactive accommodation process. 
 
Students with physical, sensory, cognitive, or emotional disabilities are encouraged to 
self-identify with the Office of Disability Resources and request needed accommodations. 
Any questions about the process can be directed to access@andrew.cmu.edu, or call (412) 
268-6121. 
4.3.2 Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures  
Graduate students will find the Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance 
Procedures on the Graduate Education Resource webpage. This document summarizes 
processes available to graduate students who seek review of academic and non-academic 
issues. Generally, graduate students are expected to seek informal resolution of all 
concerns within the applicable department, unit or program before invoking formal 
processes. When an informal resolution cannot be reached, however, a graduate student 
who seeks further review of the matter is to follow the formal procedures outlined here. 
These appeal and grievance procedures shall apply to students in all graduate programs 
of the University. Students should refer to the department specific information in this 
handbook for department and college information about the administration and 
academic policies of the program.  
 
You can review a summary of the university’s graduate student’s appeal and grievance 
procedures here: 
https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/appeal-grievance-procedures.html  
4.3.3 Safeguarding Educational Equity: Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault  
 
 31The University prohibits sex-based discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, 
dating/ domestic violence and stalking. The University also prohibits retaliation against 
individuals who bring forward such concerns or allegations in good faith. The 
University’s Sexual Misconduct Policy is available at 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-governance/sexual-
misconduct/index.html . 
 
The University’s Policy Against Retaliation is available at: 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-governance/whistleblower.html   
 
If you have been impacted by any of these issues, you are encouraged to 
make contact with any of the following resources: 
 Office of Title IX Initiatives: http://www.cmu.edu/title-ix/ , 412-268-7125, 
tix@cmu.edu 
 University Police: https://www.cmu.edu/police/ , 412-268-2323 
 Additional resources and information can be found at: 
https://www.cmu.edu/title-ix/resources-and-information/index.html   
 
4.3.4 Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students  
 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/consensual-relationships.html   
 
This policy addresses the circumstances in which romantic, sexual or amorous 
relationships/interactions with undergraduate students, even if consensual, are 
inappropriate and prohibited. The purpose of this policy is to assure healthy 
professional relationships. This policy is not intended to discourage consensual 
intimate relationships unless there is a conflicting professional relationship in which 
one party has authority over the other as in the policy. 
4.3.5 Gestational and Parental Accommodations  
https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/programs-services/maternity-accommodation-
protocol.html    
 
Students whose anticipated delivery date is during the course of the semester may 
consider taking time away from their coursework and/or research responsibilities. Any 
student who gives birth to a child while engaged in coursework or research is eligible to 
take either a short-term absence or formal leave of absence. Students are encouraged to 
consult with relevant university faculty and staff as soon as possible as they begin 
making plans regarding time away. 
 Students must contact the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs to register for 
Maternity Accommodations. Students will complete an information form and 
meet with a member of the Dean’s Office staff to determine resources and 
procedures appropriate for the individual student. 
 
 32o Planning for the student’s discussion with appropriate academic contact(s) 
(advisor, associate dean, etc.) may be reviewed during this meeting. 
 
 
 Students in course work should consider options for the semester of the 
anticipated birth such as working with their course instructors to receive 
incomplete grades, electing to drop to part-time status or taking a full semester 
leave of absence. 
 Students engaged in research must work with their faculty to develop plans for 
the research for the time they are away and for resuming upon return. 
 Master's students who receive an academic stipend funded by Carnegie Mellon 
are eligible to continue to receive stipend funding for up to six (6) weeks during a 
Short-Term Maternity Accommodation or a Formal Leave of Absence. Continued 
academic stipend funding may be extended by two (2) weeks, for a total of eight 
(8) weeks, if an absence longer than six weeks is medically necessary. To receive 
this support students must be registered with the Office of the Dean of Students. 
 
4.3.6 Change of Address  
MCDS students are responsible for notifying MCDS and the HUB of all address changes 
in a timely manner. Students will be held responsible for any failure to receive official 
college notices due to not having a correct address on file; F-1 students may jeopardize 
their status if address information is not kept current. 
Students can change their address using SIO, which is available via the HUB website: 
http://www.cmu.edu/hub/index.html  