MCDS Handbook 23-24 AY
6 Additional University Resources 
6.1 The HUB Student Services Center 
The HUB is located in Warner Hall, Lower Level. The HUB staff delivers comprehensive 
service and counsel to students and families regarding financial aid, billing and 
payment, registration and academic records. The Assistant Directors in The HUB serve 
as contacts for specific colleges and assist enrolled students with key aspects of the 
enrollment process. Student can find their assigned HUB Assistant Director on their 
Student Information Online (SIO) Resource page. Questions that need specialized, in-
depth attention can be directed to the student's assigned Assistant Director. For general 
questions and information, students may email The HUB or call 412-268-8186. 
 
thehub@andrew.cmu.edu and http://www.cmu.edu/hub/  
 
6.2 Student Information Online (SIO) 
Student Information Online (SIO) is a secure site where students can find important, 
personalized information, including E-Bills and student account information, financial 
aid status and eligibility, grades and QPA, and course schedules. Students can update 
their and their spouse's or domestic partner's contact information, sign up for E-Check & 
E-Refund, authorize their spouses, domestic partners or other individual to receive a 
copy of their E-Bill, request verifications, view their housing and meal plan assignments, 
and much more. Students can log on to SIO by going to www.cmu.edu/hub/sio and 
entering their Andrew User ID and password. 
 
On SIO, students will designate an emergency contact address of a relative or family 
friend to be contacted in the case of an emergency. If students do not want their name 
and address published in the campus directory, they must notify the HUB in writing. 
 
6.3 ID Cards 
Graduate students can obtain their ID card from The HUB once they have been entered 
into SIO for the semester. These cards identify their holders as members of the campus 
community. Student cards are deactivated upon the cardholder’s separation from the 
university. 
 
Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and partners of graduate students that allow 
them to access Carnegie Mellon’s campus. These cards are available through The HUB to 
spouses and partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the current academic 
year in a full-time graduate degree program. The card is valid for one year. For 
information about domestic partner registration, visit the Office of the Dean of Student 
Affairs webpage: 
  
http://www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/dean/domestic_partner/ . 
 
For more information about student and affiliate ID cards (spouse, domestic partners and 
dependent children), please visit: http://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/cardtypes.html . 
 
6.4 Transcripts 
Information about and instructions for ordering transcripts are available at:  
www.cmu.edu/hub/transcripts.html .  
Transcript questions may be directed to esg- transcripts@andrew.cmu.edu . 
 
6.5 Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-registration 
Carnegie Mellon University offers students the opportunity to take courses for credit 
through a cross-registration program (see Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education 
(PCHE) and Cross-registration below) and through the receipt of transfer credit from 
 
 37other accredited institutions. The Carnegie Mellon University transcript will include 
information on such courses as follows: Carnegie Mellon courses and courses taken 
through the university's cross-registration program will have grades recorded on the 
transcript and be factored into the QPA. All other courses will be recorded on this 
transcript indicating where the course was taken, but without grades. Such courses will 
not be taken into account for academic actions, honors or QPA calculations. NOTE: 
Suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer 
credit only if their college's and department's policies allow this. You can review the 
PCHE cross-registration guidelines here: 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/cross-college-university-
registration.html   
 
6.6 Student Privacy Rights and FERPA 
This university policy notifies students of their rights under the federal Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). According to FERPA, students have the 
right to: 
 Inspect and review their education records; 
 Request an amendment to their education record if they believe they are 
inaccurate or misleading; 
 Request a hearing if their request for an amendment is not resolved to their 
satisfaction; 
 Consent to disclosure of personally identifiable information from their education 
records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent; 
 File a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education Family Policy 
Compliance Office if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated. 
For questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint, contact John 
Papinchak, University Registrar, jp7p@andrew.cmu.edu , in Enrollment Services. 
 
You can review the university’s policy on privacy rights here: 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/privacy-rights-
students.html  
6.7 Academic Calendar 
The Academic Calendar can be found at 
https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/index.html  and provides information 
on all deadlines including registration dates, class start dates, add/drop 
deadlines, exam dates and more. 
6.8 Professional Development 
The Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) at Carnegie 
Mellon is a centralized career center staffed by a team of seasoned and 
highly educated professionals who orchestrate the career exploration, 
experiential learning, and career networking needs of students and 
alumni. 
 
CMU's career and professional development model is grounded in 
discipline-specific career development, experiential learning, and 
employer relations shaped by strong connections with the university's 
seven academic colleges. The center's success is founded upon a solid 
understanding of career and professional development theory, integration 
of technology, and an unwavering commitment to providing personalized 
attention towards meeting the unique individual needs of students, 
alumni, and employers. The CDPC is located on the Lower Level of the 
University Center, 412-268-2064 
 
The Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) 
offers a robust schedule of professional development opportunities. Some 
are geared towards a specific population (master’s students, PhD students 
at the beginning of their program, graduate students seeking tenure track 
positions, etc.) and others are open to all graduate students (time 
management, balancing, staying healthy). A full schedule of programs can 
be found at: http://www.cmu.edu/graduate/.  
 
http://www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/career/index.html  
6.9 University Libraries 
There are three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon: Hunt Library, Mellon 
Institute Library and Engineering & Science Library with the combined 
mission of providing access and help to graduate students in finding the 
information needed, teaching graduate students to evaluate available 
information and use reliable sources. The libraries’ digital resources and 
services, including off-campus/ wireless access to databases and e-
journals, offer online access. There are also two neighboring libraries 
open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students: Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh 
and University of Pittsburgh Libraries. Visit the University Libraries 
website for information about all mentioned library locations and hours, 
on-line resources and FAQ’s. 
 More information can be found at: 
http://www.library.cmu.edu/   
6.10 Computing Services 
Computing Services is located in Cyert Hall 285. Computing Services 
develops, maintains and supports the computing infrastructure for 
Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members and staff members. This 
includes the campus wired and wireless networks, public computer labs 
or “clusters,” cable television and telephone services, computing related 
documentation and support through the Help Center. In addition, 
Computing Services provides standard classroom technologies for over 
100 lecture halls, classrooms and seminar rooms across campus. The 
website contains additional information regarding The Help Center hours, 
location and contact information, computing cluster hours and location, 
the Carnegie Mellon web portal, computing security and policies and 
guidelines. Students can email the Help Center at 
advisor@andrew.cmu.edu with questions and for assistance. 
 
More information  
http://www.cmu.edu/computing/  
6.11 Family and Dependents Resources 
The Graduate Student Assembly website maintains a resource page for 
spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students, including 
The Student Parent Association, new mother rooms, and links to resources 
around campus and the Pittsburgh area. 
 
Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and domestic partners of 
graduate students that allow them to access Carnegie Mellon’s campus. 
These cards are available through The HUB to spouses and partners of 
graduate students who are enrolled for the current academic year in a full-
time graduate degree program. The card is valid for one year.  
 
More information can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/resources/family.html 
 
For more information about student and affiliate ID cards, please visit: 
http://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/cardtypes.html.  
6.12 Domestic Partner Registration 
Carnegie Mellon extends certain benefits to domestic partners of students. 
Eligible students may elect benefits for their domestic partners through 
the registration process orchestrated by the Office of the Dean of Student 
Affairs, located on the 3rd floor of Warner Hall. See the web site for 
information regarding the benefits available for domestic partners, 
eligibility for domestic partner benefits, registration instructions and 
forms. 
 
More information can be found at: 
http://www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/dean/domestic_partner/index.html  
6.13 Housing 
The University does not currently offer housing to graduate students. The 
Office of Housing and Dining Services does provide community housing 
information on a very limited basis to assist graduate students who are 
seeking housing in the communities surrounding the university, including 
information on the legal aspects of renting an apartment, moving 
checklists and the off-campus housing database.  
More information can be found at: 
www.cmu.edu/housing/community-housing/index.html  
 
6.14 Dining 
Dining services and operations are offered through the Office of Housing 
and Dining Services. The office operates dining locations open around 
campus in academic buildings, Hunt Library and the University Center. 
These locations offer flexible hours with options from the early morning 
through late night. The Dining Service website contains information about 
dining locations, hours of operation, graduate student dining plans forms, 
nutritional information, and weekly menus for dining locations. 
 
More information can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/dining/  
6.15 Parking and Transportation 
Graduate students will find information about parking and availability, 
parking policies, transportation options and Port Authority Transit usage 
with a valid university ID on the Parking and Transportation Services site. 
The Parking and Transportation Services office is located in the lower 
level of the University Center, LL#8. There is limited parking on campus 
and the varying permit rates can be found on the website. All parking 
areas of campus are either by permit, metered or by the hour in the 
garage. Parking and Transportation Services will ticket any car parked in a 
permit area without a permit or at an expired meter. The city monitors the 
metered parking along Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech Streets and will 
ticket at expired meters as well. 
 
More information can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/parking/  
 
The University offers shuttle and escort services operated through 
University Police. The Shuttle Service operates several routes within 
Oakland, Squirrel Hill and Shadyside areas, as well as to university sites 
located outside of the main campus. The Escort Service offers vehicle 
routes within a radius of campus between 6:30 pm-6 am daily. Information 
regarding up-to-date shuttle and escort schedules, pick-up/drop-off 
locations, routes and usage policies can be found at: 
www.cmu.edu/police/shuttleandescort/.  
 
SafeWalk provides another option to campus community members 
walking across and around campus during late-night hours. SafeWalk is a 
student volunteer organization that provides campus escorts for all 
members of the Carnegie Mellon community. SafeWalk operates nightly 
during the regular academic year (except certain holidays and break 
periods) from 10pm until 2am. Students, faculty and staff may request an 
escort by calling 412-268-SAFE (8-7233 from a campus phone), by 
approaching an escort team, or by stopping by the SafeWalk dispatch area 
in the University Center, Lower Level near the Post Office Package Pick-
 Up window between 10pm-2am. SafeWalk will escort to locations 
approximately one mile from campus. Additional SafeWalk information 
can be found at: 
www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/safewalk.  
6.16 Copying, Printing and Mailing Services 
Carnegie Mellon offers community members easy access to FedEx, copy 
centers, printing and mailing services, and postal services. More 
information regarding these services, locations and contact information 
can be found at the provided link. 
More information can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/student-
affairs/theword/campus_resources/copyprintmail.html  
6.17 University Center 
The University Center is a centerpiece of the campus that provides a space 
for special events, physical fitness, student organizations and various 
activities, as well as accommodating retail and dining services. As the 
campus crossroads, the University Center functions as a place for students 
to interact, get involved and enjoy new experiences. Visit the University 
Center website for information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC 
Bank, fitness rooms and schedules, retail stores, scheduling University 
Center space, the public prayer room, student organizations and the 
Wright-Rogal Chapel. 
 
The University Center Information Desk is the location if you want to 
know about upcoming campus events or have questions about Carnegie 
Mellon in general, call the Information Desk at 412-268-2107. The 
Information Desk not only provides information about campus events, but 
also sells postage stamps, makes copies, sends faxes, distributes campus 
maps, manages a lost & found, and has information brochures about 
Pittsburgh and the campus. 
More information can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/university-center  
6.18 Athletic/Fitness Facilities 
For the participant or the spectator, Carnegie Mellon offers intercollegiate 
athletics, intramural sports, physical education classes and club sports. 
The Athletics Department also offers aerobics classes in the University 
Center and Skibo Gym as well as occasional workshops and instruction 
related to fitness and health. The Athletics Office is located in the Skibo 
Gymnasium. 
 
Skibo Gym facilities include courts for basketball, volleyball, badminton, 
as well as weight- training and aerobic equipment. The University Center’s 
recreational facilities include an eight- lane pool, racquetball and squash 
courts, aerobics room, fitness center and gym for basketball and 
volleyball. All users must present a current Carnegie Mellon Card to use 
these facilities. 
More information can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/athletics  
6.19 CMU Alert 
CMU Alert sends voice and/or text messages to registered phones in the 
event of a campus emergency that threatens public safety or during tests 
of the system in the Spring and Fall semesters. Students can register for 
CMU Alert through the web site. More information can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/alert  
6.20 Accidents on CMU property 
Please report all accidents to Charity Anderson 
(caanders@andrew.cmu.edu) and the MCDS program administrator. You 
will be asked to complete an accident report. By reporting accidents, the 
student helps minimize future harm! Serious accidents and accidents 
taking place elsewhere on campus should be reported to Campus Police, 
x8-6232 (non-emergency), x8-2323 (emergency). 
6.21 Consumer Information 
Carnegie Mellon University suggests that all current and prospective 
students be informed consumers. Please see this link for detailed 
consumer information: https://www.cmu.edu/hub/consumer-
information/ . 
 