MCDS Handbook 23-24 AY
5 Financial Issues 
5.1 Tuition 
5.1.1 Tuition payments 
To understand your invoice, payment options, etc., visit: http://www.cmu.edu/hub . The 
MCDS program sets tuition each year for all students in the program. The student must 
handle tuition problems by contacting The Hub. The MCDS Program Administrators 
cannot solve tuition problems. 
5.1.2 Sponsored Students 
A sponsored student is one who has another party (such as an embassy or company) who 
has agreed to pay the student’s tuition. Please read the “Sponsored Students” section. 
5.1.3 Employer Reimbursement Process 
If you have an employer reimbursement plan, write your employer’s name and address 
on the bill (or provide CMU with a letter of support) and pay at least one-third of the 
tuition charge when returning the bill. You must pay previous semester balances before 
you can enroll for the next semester. 
5.1.4 Carnegie Mellon employee reimbursement procedure 
Contact the Benefits Office for specific information on tuition benefits. You must 
complete a Tuition Remission Form each semester in order to receive these benefits. To 
receive a Tuition Remission Form, visit the Human Resources website at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/hr . 
5.1.5 Financial aid, tuition waivers, Scholarships 
The MCDS degree program does not provide financial aid to graduate students, nor does 
it provide tuition waivers or scholarships. For complete financial aid information see: 
https://www.cmu.edu/sfs/financial-aid/index.html  . The Financial Aid Office of Carnegie 
Mellon will provide assistance in completing the necessary paperwork to apply for 
Stafford loans.  
 
Graduate students should consult the graduate student financial aid information found 
on The HUB website:  
 
https://www.cmu.edu/sfs/financial-aid/graduate/index.html  . 
Students will find the Graduate Financial Aid Guide, information about funding options 
and how to apply for financial aid and other helpful links. 
 
Graduate students who find themselves in need of immediate funds for emergency 
situations should contact the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs (see Appendix A), 
 www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/index.html , to inquire about an Emergency Student Loan. 
 
U.S. citizens and permanent residents may complete the Free Application for Federal 
Student 
Aid (FAFSA) online at https://fafsa.ed.gov   
Students may obtain information regarding their loans through the William D. Ford 
Direct Loan Program, including deferment forms and payment information  
at  http://www.dlssonline.com/index.asp   
 
Information about the federal student aid programs may be found at 
www.studentaid.ed.gov   
5.1.6 External fellowships 
The MCDS program will accept students with external fellowships. 
5.1.7 Grade Reports 
Grade reports are mailed to individual students by the university at the conclusion of each 
semester. See the official calendar for mailing dates. 
5.1.8 Late Graduation 
On occasion, a student and/or his/her employer may request that the student attend 
Carnegie Mellon for an additional semester in order to complete a program that will be 
beneficial to both the student and the employer. Under such circumstances late 
graduation can be arranged. Student is to discuss his/ her situation with the Director. 
5.1.9 Employment Eligibility Verification 
 
If you are receiving a stipend, are a TA, or are planning to have a position with CMU then 
Employment Eligibility Verification is required. Form I-9 must be completed within 3 
business days of beginning work for any type of compensation (stipend or employment). 
Additional details are highlighted below. To ensure compliance with federal law, 
Carnegie Mellon University maintains the Employment Eligibility Verification (I-9) Policy 
covering the university’s I-9 and E-Verify requirements: 
 Every individual receiving a stipend from CMU or employed by CMU must comply 
with the I-9 Policy by completing the Form I-9 within three business days following 
the first day of stipend start date/employment. 
 Individuals who expect to work on a federally funded project are further 
responsible for submitting an E-Verify Processing Request Form to the Office of 
Human Resources if required. 
 For more information, please see CMU’s Guidance for Completing the Form I-9 
and E-Verify Requirements at CM or visit the Human Resources Service website to 
learn more about Form I-9 and E-Verify and to schedule an appointment to 
complete the Form I-9. 
5.2 Conference Travel Funding 
Students funded by a research project may receive travel funding according to policies set by the 
individual projects. Students who have no project funding may be provided with partial funding, 
with a larger amount available for travel to present a refereed conference paper. There is an LTI 
form that must be filled out in advance. 
 
An additional conference travel funding opportunity is provided by GSA and the Provost’s Office 
for students, student work groups or groups to attend a conference, whether as a participant or as 
a presenter. The process is managed by the Graduate Education Office.  Students can find more 
information about the application process and deadlines at: 
 
https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/professional-development/index.html   
 
5.3 Expenses 
The program will reimburse any expenses incurred on behalf of the MCDS 
program if approved by the Director. The student must apply for approval 
of expenses before they are incurred. Verification of purchase and/or 
expenses along with receipts is to be presented to the program 
administrator for reimbursement. Reimbursement requests must be filed 
within three months of the calendar date when it was incurred. If the 
reimbursement request concerns pre-approved conference or workshop 
travel expenses of an MCDS students, then it must be filed within three 
months of the calendar date of the event’s last day. Reimbursement 
requests received after this period will not be processed.  The University 
does not reimburse for taxes. 
5.4 Health Insurance 
https://www.cmu.edu/health-services/student-insurance/plans.html   
Carnegie Mellon has a Student Health Insurance policy requiring full-time, degree-
seeking students to carry adequate medical insurance. Students must either purchase 
the plan offered by the University or an application for a waiver can be made if the 
student is “enrolled as the dependent, partner/spouse or principal in an employer or 
government-sponsored insurance plan”.  It is the responsibility of each student to make 
arrangements with Student Health Services to either pay for their insurance at the 
beginning of the semester or elect a payment plan over the course of the academic year. 
More information is available at the Student Health Services Web site 
 https://www.cmu.edu/health-services/student-insurance/plans.html . 
 
 
5.5 Emergency Loans 
Graduate students who find themselves in need of immediate funds for emergency 
situations should contact the Office of the Dean of Students (see Appendix A), 
www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/index.html , to inquire about the types of emergency 
funding available to enrolled students. 