MIIS Handbook_2023 - 2024
3 CMU Degree Completion and Certification  
3.1 Standard Degree Requirements & Degree Certification  
Carnegie Mellon graduate students are expected to complete their degree requirements within the standard length of time for their program of study as outlined in the relevant Graduate 
Student Handbook. Standard program lengths for graduate students vary significantly ranging 
from two semesters for some full- time master’s programs to several or more years for doctoral 
programs. Upon completion of the graduate program degree requirements, the degree will be 
certified by the student’s academic program in the semester in which the student completes 
the requirements.  
Early  Completion  
Graduate students who consider the completion of all degree requirements in less than the standard length of time for their program of study may consult with their degree -granting 
program or department to determine if early degree certification is allowed and under what circumstances . 
 Extended or Longer- than- Standard Completion  
Longer- than -standard degree completion may occur due to academic interruptions in making 
progress toward the degree as defined by the academic program, interruptions of full -time study 
or progress towards the degree due to serious, documented medical issues, or other unusual or unforeseen circumstances.  
 Master’s students who require longer than the standard time to complete their degree 
requirements are expected to remain in close contact with their graduate program, and will be 
certified at the end of the semester in which they have completed their degree requirements. 
Students shall reference CMU Policy on Master’s Student Statute of Limitations : 
www.cmu.edu/policies/student -and- student- life/masters -students -statute -of limitations.html 
regarding guidelines and restrictions which place an upper limit on t he maximum length of 
time allowable for master’s degree completion and certification.  
 3.2 Statute of Limitations  
As outlined in the Master’s Students Statute of Limitations, 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and-student- life/masters -students- statute -of-
limitations.html students will complete all requirements for the master’s degree within a 
maximum of seven years from original matriculation as a master’s student, or less if required 
by a more restrictive department, school or college policy. Once this time -to-degree lim it has 
lapsed, the person may resume work towards a master’s degree only if newly admitted to a currently offered master’s degree program under criteria determined by that program.  
Under extraordinary circumstances, such as leave of absence, military or public service, family 
or parental leave, or temporary disability, a school or college may, upon the relevant 
department's recommendation and with the written approval of the dean (or  designate), defer 
the lapse for a period commensurate with the duration of that interruption. Students who are 
pursuing a master’s degree as part- time students for all semesters of their program, as 
approved by their program, may also appeal to their program or department for extension of 
the time to degree limit.  
3.3 Additional Guidance for Students  
Program of Study  
Students seeking guidance about their program of study and degree requirements should consult with their academic advisor and/or appropriate associate dean.  
 Financial Aid and Student Account  
Students are expected to make normal progress toward their degree in order to graduate within the standard timeframe for their program of study. Under U.S. Federal Title IV regulations, 
student eligibility for federal financial aid is contingent upon enrollment in and successful 
completion of courses that are counted as credit toward their current degree program. To receive the maximum amount of federal financial aid for which they may be eligible, students 
must enroll each semester in at least 36 units that count toward their current degree level. (See 
separate guidance regarding integrated degree completion.) Students should consult with their 
designated college liaison in The HUB regarding billing and financial aid, particularly for early completion, long er-than standard completion, or integrated undergraduate and master’s degree 
programs.   
 International Students  
Immigration status for students in F -1 and J -1 nonimmigrant status is tied to making normal 
progress toward completing degree requirements. Therefore, F -1 and J -1 students who are 
considering completing their degree requirements early, anticipating longer -than -standard 
completion, or moving from an undergraduate to a graduate student classification (integrated undergraduate -graduate study) should consult with their designated advisor in the Office of 
International Education (OIE) to ensure compliance with immigration regulations.  