MIIS Handbook_2023 - 2024
1 Welcome  
Welcome to the Language Technologies Institute. While this handbook (and your college 
graduate student handbook) is specific to your academic experience in the LTI, there are 
several other resources and offices that graduate students are encouraged to consult during 
their tenure at Carnegie Mellon University. Information about The Word, the student 
handbook, the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs, the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs, and others, are included in Appendix A of this  handbook.
 
1.1 Vision  
Carnegie Mellon University will have a transformative impact on society through continual  
innovation in education, research, creativity, and entrepreneurship.  
1.2 Mission  
To create a transformative educational  experience for students focused on deep disciplinary  
knowledge; problem solving; leadership, communication, and interpersonal skills; and personal  health and well -being.  
 To cultivate a transformative university  community committed to (a) attracting and retaining  
diverse, world -class talent; (b) creating a collaborative environment open to the free exchange 
of ideas, where research, creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship can flourish; and (c) 
ensuring  individuals can achieve their full potential.  
 
To impact society in a transformative way  — regionally, nationally, and globally —  by engaging  
with partners outside the traditional borders of the university campus.  
1.3 The MIIS Degree  
The Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS) is a professional degree 
offered by the Language Technologies Institute (LTI), a graduate department in the School of 
Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University.  The MIIS degree provides advanced study 
and practical experience in areas of Computer Science focused on the processing and analysis 
of unstructured and semi -structured information, for example, text, image, video, speech, and 
audio information. It is a practice -oriented professional degree designed for students who 
want to rapidly master advanced content -analysis, mining, and intelligent information 
technologies prior to beginning or resuming leadership careers in industry and government.  
There are significant differences between CMU's different departments and degree programs 
in philosophical approach, procedures, policies,  and regulations. Each department issues a 
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 7 
 handbook that informs graduate students of their program requirements and procedures and 
ensures that students have written access to the standard information outlined below. This 
handbook describes the policies, procedures, and requirements for the Master  of Science in 
Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS) degree.  
While this handbook is specific to your academic experience in the department, there are several other resources and offices graduate students are encouraged to consult during their 
tenure at Carnegie Mellon University.  Information about The Word, the Student Handbook , 
the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs , the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs and others 
are included in Appendix A of this handbook.  
All policies not explicitly described in this document conform to School of Computer Science 
(SCS) policies and university policies described in The Word, the Student Handbook  and at 
the University Policies website .  It is the responsibility of each member of the Carnegie Mellon 
community to be familiar with university policies and guidelines.  
1.4 MIIS Contact Information  
The people responsible for administering the MIIS degree are:  
 Brianna Eriksen     Teruko Mitamura  
 Academic Program Manager    Program Director, MIIS  
 GHC 6415      Professor, LTI   
 412-268-4277     GHC 6711 
 bfreema2@andrew.cmu.edu     412-268-6596  
        teruko@andrew.cmu.edu  
  
Kate Schaich      Robert Frederking  
Administrative Manager    Chair of Graduate Programs, LTI  
GHC 6415      Principal Systems Scientist  
412-268-4788      412-268-6656  
kschaich@andrew.cmu.edu   ref@cs.cmu.edu
 
  
 
Mona Diab  
     Director, LTI  
     GHC 5415  
     412-268-3669  
     mdiab@andrew.cmu.edu  
 
In addition, students may confer with the Graduate Education Office 
(graded@andrew.cmu.edu ) regarding issues of process or other concerns as they navigate 
conflicts.  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 8 
 The Language Technologies Institute is located primarily on the 5th and 6th floors of the Gates 
Hillman Complex (GHC) on Carnegie Mellon’s Pittsburgh campus .  The address and contact 
information of the LTI are : 
Language Technologies Institute  
Carnegie Mellon University  
5000 Forbes Avenue  
Gates Hillman Complex 5404 , LTI  
Pittsburgh, PA 15241 -3891  
 
412-268-6591  (phone)  
412-268-6298 (fax)  
 
http://www.lti.cs.cmu.edu/  
1.5 Carnegie Mellon University Statement of Assurance  
Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate in admission, employment or administration 
of its programs or activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, handicap or disability, 
age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status or genetic 
information. Furthermore, Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate and is required 
not to discriminate in violation of federal, state, or local laws or executive orders.  
  
Inquiries concerning the application of and compliance with this statement should be directed 
to the university ombuds person , Carnegie Mellon University, 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213, telephone 412- 268-1018.  Obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon 
University by calling 412 -268-2000.  
  
Carnegie Mellon University publishes an annual campus security and fire safety report 
describing the university's security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault,  and fire safety policies, and 
containing statistics about the number and type of crimes committed on the campus, and the 
number and cause of fires in campus residence facilities during the preceding three years. You 
can obtain a copy by contacting the Carnegie Mellon Police Department at 412 -268-2323. The 
annual security and fire safety report also is available online 
at www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports . 
 
Information regarding the application of Title IX, including to admission and employment 
decisions, the sexual misconduct grievance procedures and process, including how to file a 
report or a complaint of sex discrimination, how to file a report of sexual harassment, and how 
the university responds to such reports is available at www.cmu.edu/title -ix. The Title IX 
coordinator may be reached at 5000 Forbes Ave., 140 Cyert Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15213; 412 -268-
7125; or tix@cmu.edu.  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 9 
 1.6 The Carnegie Mellon Code  
Students at Carnegie Mellon, because they are members of an academic community dedicated 
to the achievement of excellence, are expected to meet the highest standards of personal, 
ethical,  and moral conduct possible.  
 These standards require personal integrity, a commitment to honesty without compromise, as well as truth without equivocation and a willingness to place the good of the community 
above the good of the self. Obligations once undertaken must be met, commitments kept.  
 As members of the Carnegie Mellon community, individuals are expected to uphold the 
standards of the community in addition to holding others accountable for said standards. It is 
rare that the life of a student in an academic community can be so private that it will not affect 
the community as a whole or that the above standards do not apply.   
The discovery, advancement and communication of knowledge are not possible without a commitment to these standards. Creativity cannot exist without acknowledgment of the 
creativity of others. New knowledge cannot be developed without credit for prior knowl edge. 
Without the ability to trust that these principles will be observed, an academic community 
cannot exist.  
The commitment of its faculty, staff and students to these standards contributes to the high respect in which the Carnegie Mellon degree is held. Students must not destroy that respect 
by their failure to meet these standards. Students who cannot meet them  should voluntarily 
withdraw from the university.  
The Carnegie Mellon Code can also be found on -line at https://www.cmu. edu
/student-
affairs/theword/.  
1.7 University Policies and Expectations  
It is the responsibility of each member of the Carnegie Mellon community to be familiar with 
university policies and guidelines. In addition to this departmental graduate student 
handbook, the following resources are available to assist you in understanding community 
expectations:  
 The Word/Student Handbook  www.cmu.edu/student -affairs/theword//index.html  
 Academic Integrity Policy  https:// www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and-student-
life/academic -integrity.html  
 University Policies Website  www.cmu.edu/policies/  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 10  
 Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs  http://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/index.html  
 
Due to the changing nature of conditions and expectations surrounding public health and 
safety requirements, please visit  www.cmu.edu/coronavirus  for the most up to date 
information.   
Please see Appendix A for additional information about The Word and U niversity resources.  
1.8 Academic Calendar  
The Academic Calendar can be found at  https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/index.html  and 
provides information on all deadlines including registration dates, class start dates, add/drop deadlines, exam dates and more.  