MIIS Handbook_2023 - 2024
4 MIIS Degree Requirements and Related Policies/Protocols  
4.1 Program Options  
The MIIS degree is offered in  two options:  
Option 1.  Standard MIIS degree  (MIIS -16) - A 16 -month track that is completed in three 
academic semesters (fall, spring, fall) and a summer internship.  
Option 2.  MIIS: Advanced Study degree  (MIIS -21) - A 21 -month track that is completed in 
four academic semesters (fall, spring, fall, spring) and a summer internship.  
MIIS: Advanced Study track offers in depth  degree in one of the following areas of 
concentration:  
• Human Language for Language Technologies  
• Language Technology Application  
• Machine Learning for Language Technologies  
Part- time options are available in some cases.  
4.2 Required Units for Degree Attainment  
To complete the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems, a student must satisfy 
three types of requirements. Curricular requirements ensure that MIIS students receive 
instruction in core intelligent information systems technologies while also allowing an 
opportunity to specialize in areas of personal interest.  Practice requirements are opportunities 
to apply and hone new skills while building state -of-the-art systems. Grade  requirements ensure 
that students have demonstrated a certain level of skill while completing degree requirements. 
All three types of requirements are described below.  
MIIS -16 students must take at least 84 units (typically 7 12 -unit courses) of qualifying and 
elective courses that satisfy human language, machine learning, and language technology 
applications breadth requirements and 66 practice units for a total of 150 units to attain the 
Standard MIIS degree.  
MIIS -21 students must take at least 108 units (typically 9 12 -unit courses) of qualifying and 
elective courses and 66 practice units to satisfy their degree requirements, making it a total of 174 units to attain the MIIS: Advanced Study degree. 
4.3 Core Requirements  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 14  
 A MIIS  student must complete the following curricular requirements:  
1. Qualifying courses:   
MIIS -16 students must pass 72 units (typically 6 12 -unit courses) and MIIS -21 students 
must complete 96 units (typically 8 12 -unit courses) in qualifying master’s  courses.  
A qualifying master’s  course is defined as:  
a. Any graduate course (600 -level or higher) offered by the Language Technologies 
Institute; and  
b. Any graduate course (600 -level or higher) from the  list of approved qualifying 
courses  (Section 3. 2.4). 
2. Free elective:  Students must pass 12 units (typically 1 course) in elective master’s  
course(s). A free elective is defined as:  
a. A graduate course (600 -level or higher)  with content relevant to the MIIS 
program objectives offered  by the School of Computer Science ; and  
b. A course approved by the student's advisor and the degree Program Director.  
c. A student may not use the same course to satisfy both a qualifying course 
requirement and an elective course requirement.  
3. Breadth requirements : Students must demonstrate breadth by passing one  course in 
each of the following areas. In addition, MIIS -21 students must take two more LTI 
courses (24 units total) in one of the following areas of concentration:  
• Human language;  
• Machine learning; and  
• Language technology applications.  
 The department maintains and publishes a list of courses  that satisfy each of these 
requirements (Sections 3. 2.5 – 3.2.7). Some courses  used to satisfy a breadth requirement 
can also satisfy qualifying course requirements.  A student should get approval from the 
director for the breadth courses , if not listed below.  
4.4 Approved Qualifying Courses  
Any graduate course  (600 -level or higher) offered by the Language Technologies Institute is 
a qualifying course.  
Any two graduate courses (600 -level or higher) offered by departments within the SCS  
relevant to the MIIS degree other than LTI (Machine Learning or Computer Science departments, etc.) may be counted as approved qualifying courses .  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 15  
 Any course from the following list is an approved qualifying course. 
• 02-712, Computational Methods for Biological Modeling and Simulation  
• 05-631, Software Structures for User interfaces  
• 05-813, Human Factors  
• 10-708, Probabilistic Graphical Models  
• 16-720, Computer Vision  
• 17-631 Information Security, Privacy & Policy  
• 17-781, Mobile and IoT Computing Services   
4.4.1 Breadth Courses:  Human Language  
• 11-611, Natural Language Processing  
• 11-624, Human Language for Artificial Intelligence  
• 11-711, Advanced NLP  
• 11-722, Grammar Formalisms  
• 11-724, Human Language for Artificial Intelligence  
• 11-727, Computational Semantics for NLP  
• 11-737, Multilingual NLP  
4.4.2 Breadth Courses:  Language Technology Applications  
• 11-642, Search Engines  
• 11-688, Concepts in Digital Multimedia and Cyber Forensics  
• 11-692, Speech Processing  
• 11-697. Introduction to Question Answering  
• 11-751, Speech Recognition and Understanding  
• 11-767, On -Service Machine Learning  
• 11-797, Question Answering  
• 11-830, Computational Ethics For NLP  
4.4.3 Breadth Courses:  Machine Learning  
• 11-641, Machine Learning for Text and Graph -Based Mining  
• 11-661, Language and Statistics  
• 11-663, Applied Machine Learning  
• 11-747, Neural Networks for NLP  
• 11-755, Machine Learning for Signal Processing  
• 11-761, Language and Statistics  
• 11-777, Multimodal Machine Learning  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 16  
 • 11-785, Introduction to Deep Learning  
• 10-601, Introduction to Machine Learning (Master’s)  
• 10-605, Machine Learning with Large Datasets  
• 10-701, Introduction to Machine Learning (PhD)  
• 10-707, Advanced Deep Learning  
• 10-708, Probabilistic Graphical Models  
• 10-714, Deep Learning Systems  
• 10-715, Advanced Introduction to Machine Learning  
4.5 Practice Requirements  
A student must complete at least 66 practice -oriented course units and satisfy the following  
practice -oriented requirements for both MIIS -16 and MIIS- 21 programs.  
1. Directed study requirement:  Students must pass 24 units (typically 12 units x 2 
semesters) in directed study under the supervision of their advisor. Directed study is a 
structured, task -oriented form of independent study that provides deep, hands -on 
experience in a particular technology area and an opportunity to work closely with a 
member of the faculty.  
2. Internship requirement:  Students must complete a one -semester (typically summer) 
internship at an organization (typically a company or government agency) approved by 
the MIIS Program Director. Internships are an opportunity to apply new skills in a 
professional setting and to learn about software development in a ‘real world’ 
organization. Students with prior professional experience may petition the MIIS Program Director to waive this requirement.  
MIIS students that do an internship during the summer semester are required to present their internship at a poster session at the beginning of the following Fall semester.  The poster and the student’s participation in the poster session are part of the internship 
requirement.  Participation is required unless waived in writing by the MIIS Program 
Director.  
3. Capstone requirements:  Students must complete a capstone project (36 units) and a 
capstone planning seminar (6 units). The capstone requirement gives students 
experience with collaborative, team -oriented software development; significant hands -
on experience with the techniques studied in the classroom; and an opportunity to work on a large software application.  
a. The capstone project (36 units) is a large, group- oriented demonstration of 
student skill in one or more areas covered by the degree. Typically,  the result of 
the capstone project is a major software application. The capstone project is 
supervised by a member of the faculty who meets with students on a weekly 
basis to monitor progress and provide guidance.  
 b. The capstone planning seminar (6 units) organizes students into groups; defines 
capstone project goals, requirements, success metrics, and deliverables; and 
identifies and acquires data, software, and other resources required for successful 
completion of the project. The planning seminar must be completed in the semester prior to taking the capstone project.  
4.6 Registration Process/Procedures  
Students are responsible for registering for their courses. Use the Stellic Degree Audit 
Application  to  monitor your progress and plan your degree. Students  can search for relevant 
courses in a number of ways and share your plan with your advisor directly through the 
application.   
Navigate to the  SIO Academic Info tab and select Enrollment Status and the upcoming 
semester to confirm the following:  
• Enrollment Status is 'Eligible to Enroll' (if not, email  thehub@andrew.cmu.edu ) 
• Maximum units for which you can plan to register for (overloads are reviewed and 
permitted  only after  registration week)  
• Class Level, College and Department are correct (if incorrect, please contact your home 
academic department)  
 
The registration process can be completed within SIO (Student Information Online) by following 4 easy steps: https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/docs/4 -easy -steps.pdf
 
If students have any questions about course selection, students  may reach out to MIIS program 
director, Teruko Mitamura.  
4.7 Drop/Add/Withdraw Procedures  
Students taking undergraduate and master’s level courses must follow the procedures and 
deadlines for adding, dropping, or withdrawing from courses as identified on the academic 
calendar. Information can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/course -
changes/index.html . P lease note that there is a separate calendar for doctoral courses that does 
not apply to Masters’ students.  
4.8 Transfer Courses and Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE)  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 18  
 Carnegie Mellon University offers students the opportunity to take courses for credit through 
a cross -registration program (see Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross -
registration below) and through the receipt of transfer credit from other accredited institutions. The Carnegie Mellon University transcript will include info rmation on such 
courses as follows: Carnegie Mellon courses and courses taken through the university's cross -
registration program will have grades recorded on the transcript and be factored into the QPA. All other courses will be recorded on this transcript indicating where the course was taken, 
but without grades. Such courses will not be considered for academic actions, honors or QPA 
calculations.  
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and-student- life/transfer -credit -evaluation -and-
assignment.html  
 
NOTE: Suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer 
credit only if their college’s and department's policies allow this.  
4.9 Internships  
If the experience will have units attached to it, the program should have deliverables from the 
student commensurate with the number of units they are taking. This can be in the form of 
interim and final reports on the experience, presentations in the following semester regarding 
the experience, assessments of their experience as it relates to their course of study, etc. Students are responsible for identifying and applying for internships on their own.  The LTI and the university provide several types of support for students seeking internships.   
An annual poster session helps spread information from MIIS students that recently completed internships to MIIS students that will soon seek internships; other LTI professional master’s programs have similar internship- oriented poster sessions that MIIS students may attend. The 
university offers resume -writing and interviewing workshops to help prepare students and fall 
and spring employment fairs to help students connect with companies.  The university’s Career 
& Professional Development Center  https://www.cmu.edu/career/
 provides other services as 
well.  
If a student cannot find an internship, the MIIS program will arrange an on -campus internship 
with a university -based project.  This internship may be unpaid.  
International students are required to consult with Office of International  Education for 
eligibility before seeking an internship/co- op or signing an offer contract (required addition to 
ensure the university is in compliance with immigration laws for F &  J status students) . 
4.10 Advising  
 Each student has a faculty advisor charged with guiding the education and monitoring the 
progress of the student through the program. The advisor also supervises the student's directed 
study projects. This personal student -advisor relationship ensures that  every student receives 
the necessary faculty mentoring. The advisor also provides the student with career advice.  
How and when the advisor is selected:  Advisors are selected during the first month of the 
program. Students are expected to attend the LTI Orientation Faculty Research Talks in which faculty describe their interests and areas of expertise, and to be proactive about meeting 
individually with potential advisors. Typically, if a student and faculty member agree to enter 
an advising relationship, it is approved by the Program Director. If a student has not found an 
advisor after one month in the program, the Program Director will assign an advisor to the 
student.  
How to change advisors:  The initial advisor selection should be made carefully. However, it is 
possible to change advisors. To do so, the student should find another faculty member willing to serve as an advisor, and then make a request to the Program Director to switch advisors . The 
LTI follows the long -standing SCS policy that both the new and old advisors need to agree to 
the change; typically, this is not a problem, assuming the new advisor has agreed in advance, as 
described here. It is to the student' s advantage to avoid switching advisors, especially late in 
their graduate studies, because forging a strong student- advisor relationship takes time.  
4.11 LTI Orientation  
Prior to the beginning of each Fall semester the LTI provides lectures and faculty research 
talks to help students learn about the work done by CMU faculty and to provide an 
opportunity for advisors to recruit new students.  Students are expected to attend  them and to 
treat them as seriously as a course, because they provide a good introduction to the broad range of research done at the LTI.  Students do not have to register for the LTI Orientation 
Faculty Research Talks, nor do they receive a grade, however the department is serious about its expectation that new students will attend these talks.  
The LTI Orientation Canvas course
 is a mandatory course designed to increase incoming LTI 
graduate students' awareness and understanding of CMU's community standards and the 
resources that CMU offers the students. The course includes several administrative tasks, 
training, and educational  sessions. The students will be enrolled into the course by the 
program administrator in early August. All MIIS students are expected to complete all 
assignments by the end of their first semester in the program. Each assignment has its own due 
date.  
4.12 Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures  
Graduate students will find the Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance 
Procedures on the Graduate Education Resource webpage. This document summarizes 
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 20  
 processes available to graduate students who seek review of academic and non -academic issues. 
Generally, graduate students are expected to seek informal resolution of all concerns within the 
applicable department, unit, or program before invoking formal processes. When an informal 
resolution cannot be reached, however, a graduate student who seeks further review of the matter is to follow the formal procedures outlined here. These appeal and grievance procedures 
shall apply to students in all graduate programs of the University. Students should refer to the 
department specific information in this handbook for department and college information about 
the administration and academic policies of the program.
 
Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures - Office of Graduate and 
Postdoctoral Affairs - Carnegie Mellon University (cmu.edu)  
4.13 Intellectual Property Policy  
The MIIS degree program adheres to Carnegie Mellon University policy on intellectual 
property:  http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/IntellProp.html  