MIIS Handbook_2023 - 2024 
8 Financial Support 
8.1 Graduate Student Funding  
 The LTI does not provide financial aid or support to students in the professional master’s  
programs.  Students are encouraged to seek financial aid and support from other sources.   The 
HUB website ( https://www.cmu.edu/sfs/financial-aid/index.html ) provides the Graduate 
Financial Aid Guide, information about funding options and how to apply for financial aid and 
other helpful links.  Additional information on financial issues for graduate students can be 
found on the web  at http://www.cmu.edu/hub/new-grad/.  
Teaching assistantships are awarded to faculty members who then award these positions to 
selected students. Teaching assistant duties include, but are not limited to, holding office 
hours, conducting recitation classes, and grading. There are minimum English proficiency 
requirements that must be met for  a student to accept a teaching assistantship. Pennsylvania 
state law requires that all students who are not native speakers of English take and pass a state administered proficiency test. Support for teaching activities can be found through the 
Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence, located in Warner Hall 425. Students who will be 
T.A.s for the department are encouraged to visit the Teaching Center and to take advantage of the information and services located there.  
 
Students in the professional master’s  programs are not prohibited from seeking support as 
Teaching Assistants and Research Assistants.  However, typically , fulltime master’s  students 
do not have time for these activities.  Research Assistantships are most likely to be awarded to 
students in CMU’s research -oriented degree programs. 
MIIS students can apply for TA positions only with the permission of the program director. Teaching Assistantships are especially discouraged for first semester students.  
8.2 University Financial Aid  
Graduate students should consult the graduate student financial aid information found on The 
HUB website  (http://www.cmu.edu/finaid/graduate/index.html .) Students will find the 
Graduate Financial Aid Guide, information about funding options and how to apply for 
financial aid and other helpful links.  
8.3 Health Insurance  
Carnegie Mellon has a Student Health Insurance policy requiring full -time, degree seeking 
students to carry adequate medical insurance. Students must either purchase the plan offered by the University or an application for a waiver can be made if the student is “enrolled as the 
dependent, partner/spouse or principal in an employer or government -sponsored insurance 
plan” (see the Carnegie Mellon University Student Health Insurance Policy at 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and-student- life/student- health -insurance.html
.  
It is the responsibility of each student to make arrangements with Student Health Services to 
either pay for their insurance at the beginning of the semester or  elect a payment plan over the 
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 32  
 course of the academic year. More information is available at the Student Health Services Web 
site www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/HealthServices/insurance . 
8.4 Emergency Loans  
https://www.cmu.edu/sfs/billing/emergency -loans.html  
All students regardless of their program are eligible for the Emergency Student Loan, which is 
an interest- free and emergency- based  loan repayable within 30 days. It is available through the 
Office of the Dean of Student Affairs; students may apply for the loan by stopping into  the 
Student Affairs Office, Warner Hall 301, or by calling (412) 268 -2075 for an appointment.  
8.5 Office of the Dean of Students Emergency Support Funding  
Graduate students who find themselves in need of immediate funds for emergency situations 
should contact the Office of the Dean of Students : https://www.cmu.edu/student -affairs/dean/  
to inquire about the types of emergency funding available to enrolled students.  