MIIS Handbook_2023 - 2024 
9 Additional University Resources  
9.1 The HUB Student Services Center  
thehub@andrew.cmu.edu and http://www.cmu.edu/hub/   
The HUB is located in Warner Hall, Lower Level.  The HUB staff delivers comprehensive 
service and counsel to students and families regarding financial aid, billing and payment, 
registration, and academic records. The Assistant Directors in The HUB serves  as contacts for 
specific colleges and assist enrolled students with key aspects of the enrollment process.   Student can find their assigned HUB Assistant Director on their Student Information 
Online (SIO) Resource page.   Questions that need specialized, in- depth attention can be 
directed to the student's assigned Assistant Director.   For general questions and information, 
students may email The HUB or call 412 -268-8186.  
9.2 Student Information Online (SIO)  
Student Information Online (SIO) is a secure site where students can find important, 
personalized information, including E -Bills and student account information, financial aid 
status and eligibility, grades and QPA, and course schedules. Students can update their and 
their spouse's or domestic partner's contact information, sign up for E -Check & E -Refund, 
authorize their spouses, domestic partners or other individual to receive a copy of their E -Bill, 
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 33  
 request verifications, view their housing and meal plan assignments, and much more. Students 
can log on to SIO by going to www.cmu.edu/hub/sio  and entering their Andrew User ID and 
password.  
On SIO, students will designate an emergency contact address of a relative or family friend to 
be contacted in the case of an emergency.   If students do not want their name and address published in the campus directory, they must notify the HUB in writing.  
MIIS  students are responsible for notifying the University  of all address changes in a timely 
manner. Students will be held responsible for any failure to receive official college notices due 
to not having a correct address on file; F- 1 students may jeopardize their status if address 
information is not kept curre nt. 
 
Students can change their address using SIO, which is available via the HUB website  
(http://www.cmu.edu/hub/index.html
). 
9.3 ID Cards  
Graduate students can obtain their ID card from The HUB once they have been entered into 
SIO for the semester.  These cards identify their holders as members of the campus 
community.  Student cards are deactivated upon the cardholder’s separation from the 
university.  
 Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and partners of graduate students that allow them 
to access Carnegie Mellon’s campus.  These cards are available through The HUB to spouses and partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the  current academic year in a full -time 
graduate degree program.  The card is valid for one year.   For information about domestic partner registration, visit the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs webpage: 
https://www.cmu.edu/student- affairs/dean/domestic-partner/index.html
. 
For more information about student and affiliate ID cards (spouse, domestic partners  and 
dependent children), please visit:  https://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/index.html .  
9.4 Transcripts  
Information about and instructions for ordering transcripts are available at: https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/student- records/transcripts/
.  Transcript questions may be 
directed to  uro-transcripts@andrew.cmu.edu . 
9.5 Student Privacy Rights and FERPA  
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and-student- life/privacy -rights-students.html  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 34  
 This university policy notifies students of their rights under the federal Family Educational 
Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).  According to FERPA, students have the right to:  
• inspect and review their education records;  
• request an amendment to their education record if they believe they are inaccurate or 
misleading;  
• request a hearing if their request for an amendment is not resolved to their satisfaction;  
• consent to disclosure of personally identifiable information from their education 
records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent;  
• file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education Family Policy Compliance Office if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated.  
For questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint, contact John 
Papinchak, University Registrar,  jp7p@andrew.cmu.edu
, in Enrollment Services. 
9.6 Professional Development  
https://www.cmu.edu/career/  
The Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)  at Carnegie Mellon is a centralized 
career center staffed by a team of seasoned and highly educated  professionals who orchestrate 
the career exploration, experiential learning, and career networking needs of students and 
alumni.   
 
CMU's career and professional development model is grounded in discipline -specific career 
development, experiential learning, and employer relations shaped by strong connections with 
the university's seven academic colleges. The center's success is founded  upon a solid 
understanding of career and professional development theory, integration of technology, and 
an unwavering commitment to providing personalized attention towards meeting the unique 
individual needs of students, alumni, and employers.  The CDPC  is located on the Lower Level 
of the University Center, 412 -268-2064  
 
The Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offers a robust 
schedule of professional development opportunities.  Some are geared towards a specific 
population (master’s students, PhD students at the beginning of their program, graduate 
students seeking tenure track positions, etc.) and others are open to all graduate students (time management, balancing, staying healthy).  A full schedule of programs can be found at:  
http://www.cmu.edu/graduate/
. 
9.7 University Libraries  
http://search.library.cmu.edu  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 35  
  
There are three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon:  Hunt Library, Mellon Institute Library and 
Engineering & Science Library with the combined mission of providing access and help to 
graduate students in finding the information needed, teaching graduate students to evaluate available information and use reliable sources. The libraries’ digital resources and services, 
including off -campus/ wireless access to databases and e -journals, offer online access. There 
are also two neighboring libraries open to Carn egie Mellon graduate students: Carnegie 
Library of Pittsburgh and University of Pittsburgh Libraries. Visit the University Libraries 
website  for information about all mentioned library locations and hours, on -line resources, and 
FAQ’s.  
9.8 Computing Services  
www.cmu.edu/computing/  
 
Computing Services is located in Cyert Hall 285.  Computing Services develops, maintains,  
and supports the computing infrastructure for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members and staff members. This includes the campus wired and wireless networks, public computer 
labs or “clusters,” cable television and telephone services, computing related  documentation 
and support through the Help Center.  In addition, Computing Services provides standard 
classroom technologies for over 100 lecture halls, classrooms,  and seminar rooms across 
campus.  The website contains addition information regarding The Help Center hours, 
location and contact information, computing cluster hours and location, the Carnegie Mellon 
web portal, computing security and policies and guidelines.  Students can email the Help 
Center at advisor@andrew.cmu.edu
 with questions and for assistance.  
9.9 Family and Dependents Resources  
The Graduate Student Assembly website maintains a resource page for spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students: 
https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/Resources- for-
Graduate -Students/Partner- and-Family -Resources.html , including The Student Parent 
Association, new mother rooms, and links to resources around campus and the Pittsburgh 
area.  
Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and domestic partners of graduate students that 
allow them to access Carnegie Mellon’s campus.  These cards are available through The HUB 
to spouses and partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the cur rent academic year in 
a full- time graduate degree program.  The card is valid for one year.  For more information 
about student and affiliate ID cards, please visit: 
https://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/sponsored.html .  
9.10  Domestic Partner Registration  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 36  
 Carnegie Mellon extends certain benefits to domestic partners of students.   Eligible students 
may elect benefits for their domestic partners through the registration process orchestrated by 
the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs, 3rd floor Warner Hall.   Information regarding the 
benefits avail -able for domestic partners, eligibility for domestic partner benefits, registration 
instructions and forms can be located at: https://www.cmu.edu/student- affairs/dean/domestic -
partner/index.html .  
9.11 Housing  
The university does not currently offer housing to graduate students.   The Office of Housing and Dining Services does provide  community housing information to assist graduate students 
who are seeking housing in the communities surrounding the university, including 
information on the legal aspects of renting an apartment, moving checklists and the off -
campus housing database. This information can be located at: https://www.cmu.edu/housing/
.  
9.12  Dining  
https://www.cmu.edu/dining/  
 Dining services and operations are offered through the Office of Housing and Dining Services.  The office operates  dining locations open around campus in academic buildings, Hunt Library,  
and the University Center. These locations offer flexible hours with options from the early morning through late night.   The Dining Service website contains information about dining 
locations, hours of operation, graduate student dining plans forms, nutritional information, 
and weekly menus for dining locations.  
9.13  Parking and Transportation  
https://www.cmu.edu/parking/  
 Graduate students will find information about parking and availability, parking policies, 
transportation options and Port Authority Transit usage with a valid university ID on the 
Parking and Transportation Services site.  The Parking and Transportation Services office is 
located in the lower level of the University Center, LL#8.  There is limited parking on campus 
and the varying permit rates can be found on the website.  All parking areas of campus are 
either by permit, metered or by the hour in the gara ge.  Parking and Transportation Services 
will ticket any car parked in a permit area without a permit or at an expired meter.  The city 
monitors the metered parking along Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech Streets and will ticket at expired meters as well.  
The university offers shuttle and escort services operated through University Police.  The Shuttle Service operates several routes within Oakland, Squirrel Hill and Shadyside areas, as 
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 37  
 well as to university  sites located outside of the main campus.  The Escort Service offers 
vehicle routes within a radius of campus between 6:30 pm -6 am daily.  Information regarding 
up-to-date shuttle and escort schedules, pick -up/drop- off locations, routes and usage policies  
can be found at:  www.cmu.edu/police/shuttleandescort/ .  
9.14  Copying, Printing and Mailing Services  
Carnegie Mellon offers community members easy access to UPS , copy centers, printing and 
mailing services, and postal services.  
Mailing and postal services https://www.cmu.edu/postoffice/  
Printing and copy services https://www.cmu.edu/tartanink/copyprint/index.html  
9.15  University Center  
www.cmu.edu/university- center  
 
The University Center is a centerpiece of the campus that provides a space for special events, 
physical fitness, student organizations and various activities, as well as accommodating retail 
and dining services. As the campus crossroads, the University Center functions as a place for 
students to interact, get involved and enjoy new experiences.  Visit the University Center 
website for information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness rooms and 
schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Cen ter space, the public prayer room, student 
organizations and the Wright -Rogal Chapel.  
The University Center Information Desk is the location if you want to know about upcoming campus events or have questions about Carnegie Mellon in general, call the Information Desk at 412 -268-2107. The Information Desk not only provides information about campus events, 
but also sells postage stamps, makes copies, sends faxes, distributes campus maps, manages a lost & found, and has information brochures about Pittsburgh and the campus.  
9.16  Athletic/Fitness Facilities  
 www.cmu.edu/athletics  
For the participant or the spectator, Carnegie Mellon offers intercollegiate athletics, intramural sports, physical education classes and club sports. The Athletics Department also offers aerobics classes in the University Center and Skibo Gym as well as occasional 
workshops and instruction related to fitness and health.  The Athletics Office is located in the 
Skibo Gymnasium.  
MIIS Graduate Student Handbook  Page 38  
 Skibo Gym facilities include courts for basketball, volleyball, badminton, as well as weight -
training and aerobic equipment. The University Center’s recreational facilities include an 
eight- lane pool, racquetball and squash courts, aerobics room, fitness center and gym for 
basketball and volleyball. All users must present a current Carnegie Mellon Card to use these 
facilities.  
9.17  CMU Alert  
www.cmu.edu/alert   
CMU Alert sends voice and/or text messages to registered phones in the event of a campus emergency that threatens public safety or during tests of the system in the spring and fall semesters.  Students can register for CMU Alert through the website.   
 
 
 
   
 
    
 
   