MLT Student Handbook 2023 - 2024
A Appendix:  Highlighted University Resources for Graduate Students and The 
WORD, Student Handbook  
A.1 Key Offices for Graduate Student Support  
A.1.1  Graduate Education Office  
www.cmu.edu/graduate ; grad -ed@cmu.edu   
The Graduate Education Office serves as a hub for connecting graduate students to relevant 
campus experts and resources to support their academic success, understanding of university level policies and practices and to assist them in advancing their personal and professional 
development. 
Examples of resources offered through the Graduate Education Office include, but are not limited to:  
• Website with university resources, contact information for CMU programs and services, 
calendar of events related to graduate students  
• Bi-monthly email to all graduate students with information on activities, resources and 
opportunities 
• Professional Development Seminars and Workshops  
• GSA/Provost Conference Funding Grants  
• GSA/Provost Small Research Grants (GuSH)  
• Consultations on issues related to the graduate student experience  
The Graduate Education Office also works with the colleges and departments by informing and assisting in developing policy and procedures relevant to graduate students and working with departments on issues related to graduate students. Additionally we partner with many other offices and organizations, such as the Graduate Student Assembly, to support the holistic 
graduate student educational experience.   
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 37 
 A.1.2  Office of the Dean of Students 
http://www.cmu.edu/student- affairs/dean   
The Office of the Dean of Students  provides central leadership of the metacurricular experience 
at Carnegie Mellon , including the coordination of student support. Vice President of Student 
Affairs and Dean of Students Gina Casalegno leads the Division of Student Affairs, which 
includes the offices and departments listed below (not an exhaustive list):  
• Athletics , Physical Education and Recreation  
• Career and Professional Development Center  (CPDC)  
• Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion  
• Cohon University Ce nter  
• Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS)  
• Dining Services  
• Office of Community Standards and Integrity  (OCSI)  
• Office of Student Leadership, Involvement, and Civic Engagement (SLICE)  
• University Health Services  (UHS)  
• Wellness Initiatives  
Graduate students will find the enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration and 
Childbirth/ Maternity Accommodations in the Office of the Dean of Stude nt Affairs and on the 
website. The Office of the Dean of Student Affairs also manages the Student Emergency 
Support Funding process. There are three forms of support funding for enrolled students: 
emergency student loans, maternity loans, and the Tartan Emergency Support Fund. These 
funds are made available through generous gifts of alumni and friends of the University, as well as support from student organizations, the Undergraduate Student Senate, and the Graduate Student Assembly. Students will be provided with additional information about the various types of funding during a consultation meeting with a member of the Dean of Students team. Tuition costs are not eligible for Student Emergency Support Funding.  
 
Additional resources for graduate students include College Liaisons and the Student Support 
Resources team. College Liaisons are senior members of the Division of Student Affairs who work with departments and colleges addressing student concerns across a wide range of issues. College Liaisons are identified on the student SIO page in the Important Contacts list. The Student Support Resources team offers an additional level of support for students who  
are navigating any of a wide range of life events. Student Support Resources staff members 
work in partnership with campus and community resources to provide coordination of care and 
support appropriate to each student’s situation.  
A.1.3  Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion  
https://www.cmu.edu/student- diversity  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 38 
 Diversity and inclusion have a singular place among the values of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Center for Student Diversity &amp; Inclusion actively cultivates a strong, diverse and inclusive community capable of living out these values and advancing research, creativity, learning and development that changes the world.  
The Center offers resources to enhance an inclusive and transformative student experience in dimensions such as access, success, campus climate and intergroup dialogue. Additionally, the 
Center supports and connects historically underrepresented students and those who are first in 
their family to attend college in a setting where students’ differences and talents are appreciated and reinforced, both at the graduate and undergraduate level. Initiatives 
coordinated by the Center include, but are not limited to:  
• First generation/first in family to attend college programs  
• LGBTQ+ initiatives  
• Race and ethnically -focused programs, including Inter -Unive rsity Graduate Students of 
Color Series (SOC) and PhD SOC Network  
• Women’s empowerment programs, including Graduate Women’s Gatherings (GWGs)  
• Transgender and non- binary student programs  
A.1.4  Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation 
www.cmu.edu/teaching  
We offer a wide variety of confidential, consultation services and professional development programs to support graduate students as teaching assistants or instructors of record during their time at Carnegie Mellon University and as future faculty members at other institutions. 
Regardless of one’s current or future teaching context and duties, our goal is to disseminate 
evidence- based teaching strategies in ways that are accessible and actionable. Programs and 
services include campus -wide Graduate Student Instructor Orientation events and our Future 
Faculty Program, both of which are designed to help participants be effective and efficient in their teaching roles. The Eberly Center also assists departments in creating and conducting customized programs to meet the specific needs of their graduate student instructors.  Specific 
information about Eberly Center support for graduate students can be found at: 
www.cmu.edu/teaching/graduatestudentsupport/index.html .    
A.1.5  Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline 
https://www.cmu.edu/hr/resources/ethics-hotline.html   
 The health, safety, and well -being of the university community a re top priorities at Carnegie 
Mellon University. CMU provides a hotline that all members of the university community should use to confidentially report suspected unethical activity relating to areas below:  
• Academic and Student Life  
• Bias Reporting  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 39 
 • Discriminatory Harassment/Sexual Misconduct/Title IX  
• Employee Misconduct  
• Employment Related  
• Environmental Health and Safety /Pandemic Safety  
• Financial Matters  
• Health and Wellness  
• Information Systems and Data Privacy  
• Public Safety and Criminal Activity  
• Research and Intellectual Property  
Students, faculty , and staff can anonymously file a report by calling 1- 844- 587- 0793  or visiting -
cmu.ethicspoint.net . All submissions will be reported to appropriate university personnel.  
The hotline is NOT an emergency service. For emergencies, call University Police at 412 -268-
2323.  
 
A.1.6  Policy Against Retaliation  
It is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University to protect from retaliation any individual who 
makes a good faith report of a suspected violation of any applicable law or regulation, 
University policy or procedure, any contractual obligation of the University, and any report 
made pursuant to the Carnegie Mellon University Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. 
Additional details regarding the Policy Against Retaliation are available at 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-governance/whistleblower.html  
A.1.7  Graduate Student Assembly  
www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/index.html   
The Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) is the branch of Carnegie Mellon Student Government 
that represents, and advocates for the diverse interests of all graduate students at CMU. GSA is composed of representatives from the different graduate programs and departments who want 
to improve the graduate student experience at the different levels of the university. GSA is 
funded by the Student Activities Fee from all graduate students. GSA passes legislation, allocates student activities funding, advocates for legislative action locally and in Washington D.C. on behalf of graduate student issues and needs, and otherwise acts on behalf of all graduate student interests. Our recent accomplishments are a testament to GSA making a difference, and steps to implementing the vision laid out by the strategic plan. 
https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/About-the- GSA/Strategic -Plan.html.  
GSA offers an expanding suite of social programming on and off- campus to bring graduate 
students from different departments together and build a sense of community. GSA is the host of the Graduate Student Lounge on the 3rd floor of the Cohon University Center - a great place 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 40 
 to study or meet up with friends. GSA also maintains a website of graduate student resources 
on and off- campus. Through GSA’s continued funding for professional development and 
research conferences, the GSA/Provost Conference Funding Program and GSA/Provost GuSH Research Grants are able to run, as managed by the Graduate Education Offi ce. As we move 
forward, GSA will continue to rely on your feedback to improve the graduate student experience at CMU. Feel free to contact us at gsa@cmu.edu
 to get involved, stop by our o ffice 
in the Cohon University Center Room 304 or become a representative for your department.  
 
A.1.8  Language and Cross- Cultural Support  
More than 60% of graduate students at Carnegie Mellon are international students, and others are nonnative speakers of English who have attended high school or undergraduate programs 
in the US. Many of these students want to hone their language and cross -cultural skills for 
academic and professional success. Students can choose from sessions on:  
• how to give a strong presentation 
• writing academic emails  
• expectations and strategies for clear academic writing  
• how to talk about yourself as a professional in the U.S.  
• developing clearer pronunciation  
• using accurate grammar  
• building fluency, and more.  
Students can make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist to get 
individualized coaching on language or cross -cultural issues.  
The Student Academic Success Center is also charged with certifying the language of International Teaching Assistants (ITAs), ensuring that nonnative English speakers have the language proficiency needed to succeed as teaching assistants in the Carnegie Mellon classroom. Students preparing to do an ITA Certification should plan to take classes offered by the language support team at the SASC from  the beginning of their first semester. Start by 
contacting the language support team at the SASC website or attend a Language Support Orientation at the SASC or in your department.   
A.1.9  Office of International Education (OIE)  
www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/oie/   
Carnegie Mellon hosts international graduate and undergraduate students who come from more than 90 countries. The Office of International Education (OIE) is the liaison to the University for all non -immigrant students and scholars, as well the repository for study abroad 
opportunities and advisement. OIE provides many services including: advising on personal, immigration, study abroad, academic, and social and acculturation issues; presenting programs 
of interest such as international career workshops, tax workshops, and cross -cultural and 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 41 
 immigration workshops; international education and statistics on international students in the 
United States; posting pertinent information to students through email and the OIE website, and conducting orientation and pre -departure programs.  
A.1.10  Veterans and Military Community  
http://www.cmu.edu/veterans/   
Military veterans are a vital part of the Carnegie Mellon University community.  Graduate students can find information on applying veteran education benefits, campus services, veteran’s groups at CMU, non- educational resources and international military service 
information through the Veterans and Military Community  website. There are also links and 
connections to veteran resource in the Pittsburgh community.  The Naval ROTC and Veteran Affairs Offices are located at 4615 Forbes Avenue, 
uro-vaedbenefits@andrew.cmu.edu , 412-
268- 8747.  
A.2 Key Offices for Academic & Research Support  
A.2.1  Computing and Information Resources  
www.cmu.edu/computing  
Computing Services maintains and supports computing resources for the campus community, 
including the campus wired and wireless networks, printing, computer labs, file storage, email, and software c atalog. As members of this community, we are all responsible for the security of 
these shared resources. Be sure to review the Safe Computing section (https://www.cmu.edu/computing/safe
) and the University Computing Policy 
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/information-technology/computing.html ).   
A.2.2  Research at CMU  
www.cmu.edu/research/index.shtml   
The primary purpose of research at the university is the advancement of knowledge in all fields in which the university is active.  Research is regarded as one of the university’s major 
contributions to society and as an essential element in education, particularly at the graduate 
level and in faculty development. Research activities are governed by several university policies.  
Guidance and more general information is found by visiting the Research at Carnegie Mellon website.  
A.2.3  Office of Research Integrity & Compliance 
www.cmu.edu/research- compliance/index.html  
The Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) is designed to support research at Carnegie Mellon University. The staff work with researchers to ensure research is conducted 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 42 
 with integrity and in accordance with federal and Pennsylvania regulation. ORIC assists 
researchers with human subject research, conflicts of interest, responsible conduct of research, export controls, and institutional animal care & use.  ORIC also provides consultation, advice, and review of allegations of resear ch misconduct.  
A.2.4  Student Academic Success Center  
https://www.cmu.edu/student- success  
Student Academic Support Programs  
A.2.4.1  Communication & Language Support 
• Communication Support: The program offers free consultations for all CMU students on their written, oral, and visual projects. Our trained communication consultants help communicators convey ideas clearly and effectively on a variety of STEM and humanities  
topics. Consultants support communication excellence on essays, technical reports, oral presentations, slides, data visualization, advanced English language learning, and many other project types. Clients can bring in a project at any stage, including bra instorming 
ideas, organizing thoughts, responding to instructor feedback, or putting finishing touches on the final draft. Support is offered in several modes:  
o One-on-one Communication Tutoring (in-person or synchronous Zoom meeting): 
Clients meet with a c onsultant to improve the logic, clarity, and flow of writing or 
presentation and receive expert feedback that will strengthen a project. When making an appointment, clients upload a draft, instructor prompts, and rubrics so the consultants can use specific  criteria to give relevant feedback. See the 
appointment types offered here: 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-
success/programs/communication -support/make- an-appointment.html  
o Video Response (asynchro nous): Clients upload documents in advance, then 
receive a 20 to 30 minute video with a consultant’s feedback. The feedback 
video will be received within 5 days of the scheduled appointment.  
o Group Appointments: Participate with your group to accomplish peer reviews or 
focus on collaborative presentation strategies.  
o Workshops:  Workshops are available on a variety of topics and help attendees 
learn research -backed communication strategies. 
https://www.cmu.edu/student- success/calendar.html   
o Resources:  An online collection of handouts and videos that concisely explain 
specific communication strategies are available. https://www.cmu.edu/student-
success/other -resources/index.html   
A.2.4.2  Language and Cross -Cultural Support  
More than 60% of graduate students at Carnegie Mellon are international students, and other s 
are non -native speakers of English who have attended high school or undergraduate programs 
in the U.S. Many of these students want to hone their language and cross -cultural skills for 
academic and professional success. Students can make an appointment with a Language 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 43 
 Development Specialist to get individualized coaching on language or cross -cultural issues. 
Students can choose from sessions on:  
• How to give a strong presentation  
• Writing academic emails  
• Analyzing expectations and strategies for clear academ ic writing  
• How to talk about yourself as a professional in the U.S.  
• Developing clearer pronunciation  
• Using accurate grammar 
• Building fluency  
and more. Students can make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist to get 
individualized coaching on language or cross -cultural issues.  
The Student Academic Success Center is also charged with certifying the language of International Teaching Assistants (ITAs), ensuring that nonnative English speakers have the language proficiency needed to succeed as te aching assistants in the Carnegie Mellon 
classroom. Students preparing to do an ITA Certification should plan to take classes offered by 
the language support team at the SASC website or attend a Language Support Orientation at 
the SASC or in your departmen t. 
 
A.2.4.3  Learning Support  
• Peer Tutoring: Weekly tutoring appointments are offered one -on-one and small group 
format to students from any discipline who need assistance with a course that may not 
be supported by our other services. Weekly appointments give stude nts the opportunity 
to interact regularly with the same tutor to facilitate deeper understanding of concepts. 
Students can register online through the Student Academic Success website.  
 
• Academic Coaching: Academic Coaching provides holistic one -on-one peer  support and 
group workshops to help students find and implement their conditions for success. We assist students in improving time management, productive habits, organization, stress management, and study skills. Students will request support through the Academic 
Success Center website and attend in- person meetings or meet using video and audio 
conferencing technology to provide all students with support.  
 
• “Just in Time” Workshops: The Student Academic Success team is available to partner 
with instructors and departments to identify skills or concepts that would benefit from  
supplemental offerings (workshops, boot camps) to support students’ academic success  
and learning. We are eager to help convene and coordinate outside of the classroom skill- building opportunities that can be open to any student interested in building skill or  
reinforcing course concept mastery.  
 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 44 
 A.2.5  Office of Research Integrity & Compliance 
www.cmu.edu/research- compliance/index.html  
The Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) is designed to support research at 
Carnegie Mellon University.  The staff work with researchers to ensure research is conducted 
with integrity and in accordance with feder al and Pennsylvania regulation.  ORIC assists 
researchers with human subject research, conflicts of interest, responsible conduct of research, export controls, intellectual property rights and regulations, and institutional animal care & use. 
ORIC also consults on, advises about and handles allegations of research misconduct.  
A.3 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety  
A.3.1  Counseling & Psychological Services  
https://www.cmu.edu/counseling   
Counseling & Psychological Serv ices (Ca PS) affords the opportunity for students to talk privately 
about academic and personal concerns  in a saf e, confidential setting.  An initial consultation at 
CaPS can help clarify the nature of the concern, provide immediate support, and explore further options if needed. These may include a referral for counseling within CaPS, to another resource at Carnegie Mellon, or to another resource within the larger Pittsburgh community. 
CaPS also provides workshops and group session on mental health related topics specifically for graduate students on campus. CaPS services are provided at no cost. Appointments can be made in person or by telephone at 412 -268- 2922.  
A.3.2  Health Services  
www.cmu.edu/HealthServices   
University Health Services (UHS) is staffed by physicians, advanced practice clin icians, and 
registered nurses who provide general medical care, allergy injections, first aid, gynecological care and contraception, and on- site pharmaceuticals. The CMU Student Insurance Plan covers 
most visit fees to see the physicians and advanced practice clinicians & nurse visits.   Fees for 
prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral to the emergency room or specialists are the student’s responsibility and students should review the UHS website 
and their insurance plan for detailed information about the university health insurance 
requirement and fees.  
UHS also has a registered dietician and health promotion specialists on staff to assist students in addressing nutrition, drug and alcohol, and other healthy lifestyle issues. In addition to providing direct health care, UHS administers the Student Health Insurance Program. The Student Health Insurance plan offers a high level of coverage in a wide network of health care providers and hospitals.   Appointments can be made by visiting UHS’s website, walk -in, or by 
telephone, 412 -268-2157.  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 45 
 A.3.3  Campus Wellness  
http://www.cmu.edu/wellness/   
At Carnegie Mellon, we believe our individual and collective well- being is rooted in healthy 
connections to each other and to campus resources. The university provides a wide variety of 
wellness, mindfulness and connectedness initiatives and resources designed to help students 
thrive inside and outside the classroom. The BeWell@CMU e -newsletter seeks to be a 
comprehensive resource for CMU regarding all wellness -inspired events, announcements and 
professional and personal development opportunities. Sign up for the Be Well monthly newsletter via 
https://bit.ly/BeWellNewsletter  or by contacting the Program Director for 
Student Affairs Wellness Initiatives, at alusk@andrew.cmu.edu .    
A.3.4  Religious & Spiritual Life Initiatives  (RSLI)  
www.cmu.edu/student- affairs/spirituality   
Carnegie Mellon is committed to the holistic growth of our students, including creating opportunities for spiritual and religious practice and exploration. We have relationships with local houses of worship from various traditions and many of these groups are members of CMU’s Council of Religious Advisors. We also offer programs and initiatives that cross traditional religious boundaries in order to increase knowledge of and appreciation for the full diversity of the worldview traditions. Our RSLI staff are here to support students across the 
spectrum of religious and spiritual practice and would be more than happy to help you make a 
connection into a community of faith during your time at CMU.  
A.3.5  University Police  
http://www.cmu.edu/police/   
412- 268-2323  
The University Police Department is located at 4551 Filmore Street . The department’s services 
include police patrols and call response, criminal investigations, fixed officer and foot officer 
patrols, event security, crime prevention and education programming, and bicycle and laptop 
registration.  Visit the department’s website for additional information about the staff, 
emergency phone locations, crime prevention, lost and found, fingerprint services, and annual statistic reports.  
Carnegie Mellon University publishes an annual campus security and fire safety report describing the university’s security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault, and fire safe ty policies and 
containing statistics about the number and type of crimes committed on the campus and the number and cause of fires in campus residence facilities during the preceding three years. Graduate students can obtain a copy by contacting the Unive rsity Police Department at 412 -
268- 6232. The annual security and fire safety report is also available online at 
https://www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports/
.  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 46 
 A.3.6  Shuttle & Escort Services  
Parking and Transportation coordinates the Shuttle and Escort Service provided for CMU 
students, faculty, and community. The Shuttle & Escort website has full information about these services, stops, routes, tracking, and schedules. 
https://www.cmu.edu/parking/shuttle/index.html
  
A.4 The WORD  
http://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/  
The WORD is Carnegie Mellon University’s student handbook and serves as the foundation for 
the department (and sometimes college) handbook. The WORD contains University -wide 
academic policies and resources, community policies and resources, and describes the 
University -level procedures used to review possible violations of these standards.  It is designed 
to provide all students with the tools, guidance, and insights to help you achieve your  full 
potential as a member of the Carnegie Mellon community.   Information about the following is 
included in The WORD (not an exhaustive list) and graduate students are encouraged to bookmark this site and refer to it often:  
Carnegie Mellon Vision, Mission  
Statement of Assurance  
Carnegie Mellon Code 
Academic Standards, Policies and Procedures  
 Educational Goals  
 Academic and Individual Freedom  
Academic Disciplinary Actions Overview  
 S tatement on Academic Integrity Standards for Academic & Creative Life  
Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  
Master’s Student Statute of Limitations  
Conduct of Classes  
Copyright Policy  
Cross- college & University Registration  
Doctoral Student Status Policy  
Evaluation & Certification of English Fluency for Instructors  
Final Exams for Graduate Cours es 
Grading Policies  
Intellectual Property Policy  
Privacy Rights of Students  
Student’s Rights  
 
Research  
Human Subjects in Research  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 47 
 Office of Research Integrity & Compliance  
Office of Sponsored Programs  
Policy for Handling Alleged Misconduct of Research  
Policy on Restricted Research   
 
Tax Status of Graduate Student Awards  
 
Campus Resources & Opportunities  
 Alumni Relations  
Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  
 Athletics, Physical Fitness & Recreation  
 Carnegie Mellon ID Cards and Services  
Cohon University Center  
 Copying, Printing & Mailing  
 Division of Student Affairs  
 Domestic Partner Registration  
 Emergency Student Loan Program  
 Gender Programs & Resources  
 Health Services  
 Dining Services  
 The HUB Student Services Center  
ID Card Services  
Leonard Gelfand Center  
 LGBTQ Resources  
Multicultural and Diversity Initiatives  
 Opportunities for Involvement  
 Parking and Transportation Services  
 Shuttle and Escort Services  
 Spiritual Development  
University Police  
Student Activities  
 University Stores  
 Community Standards, Policies and Procedures  
Active Medical Assistance Protocol  
 Alcohol and Drugs Policy  
 AIDS Policy  
 Bicycle/Wheeled Transportation Policy  
 Damage to Carnegie Mellon Property  
 Deadly Weapons  
 Discriminatory Harassment  
 Disorderly Conduct  
 Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Policy  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 48 
  Freedom of Expression Policy  
 Health Insurance Policy  
 Immunization Policy  
 Missing Student Protocol  
 Non- Discrimination Policy  
 On-Campus Emergencies  
 Pets  
 Political Activities  
 Recycling Policy  
 Riotous and Disorderly Behavior  
 Safety Hazards  
 Scheduling and Use of University Facilities  
 Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault Policy  
 Smoking Policy  
 Student Accounts Receivable and Collection Policy and Procedures  
 Student Activities Fee  
 Student Enterprises  
 Wo rkplace Threats and Violence Policy  
 
University policies can also be found in full text at: http://www.cmu.edu/policies/   
 