MLT Student Handbook 2023 - 2024
6 Financial Issues  
6.1 Graduate Student Funding  
For all LTI MLT students, full funding (tuition plus stipend) is guaranteed for the first year. This support is normally continued for the duration of the program, subject to continuing satisfactory progress and availability of funding. The fellowship includes full tuition and fees, 
and a monthly MLT stipend. In addition, the LTI pays a dependency allowance of 10% of the 
student's monthly stipend to any student with a child, unless they have a spouse who earns 
more than $200 per month.  
If an MLT student receives an outside graduate fellowship (e.g., NSF, Fulbright), the student is expected to accept it in place of the LTI’s graduate fellowship. As an extra incentive to do so, 
the LTI will supplement the award so that the student will receive full tuition and a combined 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 28 
 stipend 10 percent higher than that of the standard LTI graduate fellowship. Students are 
required to inform the LTI about any external funding that they receive.  
6.2 University Financial Aid  
Graduate students should consult the graduate student financial aid information found on The 
HUB website: http://www.cmu.edu/finaid/graduate/index.html . 
6.3 Conference Travel Funding  
Students funded by a research project receive travel funding according to policies set by the 
individual projects.  Students who have no project funding may be provided with partial funding, 
with a larger amount available for travel to presen t a refereed conference paper. There is an LTI 
form that must be filled out in advance. 
6.4 Office of the Dean of Students Emergency Support Funding  
Graduate students who find themselves in need of immediate funds for emergency situations should contact the Office of the Dean of Students (see Appendix A), 
www.cmu.edu/student-
affairs/index.html , to inquire about the types of emergency funding available to enrolled 
students. 
6.5 Health Insurance  
Carnegie Mellon has a Student Health Insurance pol icy requiring full -time, degree -seeking 
students to carry adequate medical insurance. Students must either purchase the plan offered 
by the University , or an application for a waiver can be made if the student is “enrolled as the 
dependent, partner/spouse or principal in an employer or government -sponsored insurance 
plan” (see the Carnegie Mellon University Student Health Insurance Policy at 
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/StudentInsurance ).  
The LTI does not cover student health insurance, regardless of the students’ funding situation. It is the responsibility of each student to make arrangements with Student Health Services to either pay for their insurance at the beginning of the semester, or elect a payment plan over the course of the academic year. More information is available at the Student Health Services 
Web site www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/HealthServices/insurance .  
 6.6 Emergency Loans  
http://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/index.html  
All students , regardless of their program, are eligible for the Emergency Student Loan, which is  
an interest- free and emergency- based loan repayable within 30 days. It is available through the 
Office of the Dean of Student Affairs; students may apply for the loan by stopping in to the 
Student Affairs Office, Warner Hall 301, or by calling (412) 268 -2075 for an appointment.  
6.7 Employment Eligibility Verification  
If you are receiving a stipend, are a TA, or are planning to have a position with CMU then 
Employment Eligibility Verification is required. Form I -9 must be  completed within 3 business 
days of beginning work for any type of compensation (stipend or employment). Additional 
details are highlighted  below. To ensure compliance with federal law, Carnegie Mellon 
University  maintains the Employment Eligibility Verification (I -9) Policy [pdf] covering  the 
university’s I -9 and E -Verify requirements:  
• Every individual receiving a stipend from CMU or employed by CMU  
must comply with the I -9 Policy by completing the Form I -9 within three  business 
days following the first day of stipend start date/employment.  
• Individuals who expect to work on a federally funded project are further responsible for submitting an E -Verify Processing Request Form to the Office of 
Human Resources if required.  
• For more information, please see CMU’s Guidance for Completing the Form I -9 
and E -Verify Requirements at CMU [pdf], or visit the Human Resources Service 
website to learn more about Form I -9 and E -Verify and to schedule an 
appointment to complete the Form I -9. 
• Students who fail to complete the Form I -9 in a timely manner may have stipend 
payments suspended.   If employed by the university, an individual who fails to 
timely complete the Form I -9 may be subject to  disciplinary action up to and 
including termination of employment.  