MLT Student Handbook 2023 - 2024
3 Master’s Degree Completion and Certification  
3.1 Standard Degree Requirements an d Degree Certification  
3.1.1 Graduate Students  
Carnegie Mellon graduate students are expected to complete their degree requirements within the standard length of time for their program of study as outlined in the relevant Graduate 
Student Handbook. Standard prog ram lengths for graduate students vary significantly-- ranging 
from two semesters for some full -time master’s programs to several or more years for doctoral 
programs. Upon completion of the graduate program degree requirements, the degree will be 
certified by the student’s academic program in the semester in which the student completes the requirements.  
3.1.2 Early Completion  
Graduate students who consider the completion of all degree requirements in less than the 
standard length of time for their program of study may consult with their degree -granting 
program or department to determine if early degree certification is allowed and under what 
circumstances.  
 3.1.3 Extended or Longer -than -Standard Completion (Statute of Limitations)  
Longer -than -standard degree completion may occur due to academic interruptions in making 
progress toward the degree as defined by the academic  program, interruptions of full -time 
study or progress towards the degree due to  serious, documented medical iss ues, or other 
unusual or unforeseen  circumstances.  
Master’s students who require longer than the standard time to complete their  degree 
requirements are expected to remain in close contact with their  graduate program, and will be 
certified at the end of the semester in which they  have completed their degree requirements. 
Students shall reference CMU Policy on Master’s Student Statute of Limitations  (www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and- student- life/masters -students -statute -of limitations.html) 
regarding guidelines and restrictions which place an upper limit on the maximum length of time 
allowable for master’s degree completion and  certification.  
3.1.4 Additional Guidance for Students 
• Program of Study: Students seeking guidance about their program of study and degree 
requirements should consult with their academic advisor and/ or appropriate  associate 
dean.  
• Financial Aid and Student Account: Students are expected to make normal progress  
toward their degree to  graduate within the standard timeframe for their program of 
study. Under U.S. Federal Title IV regulations, student eligibility  for federal financial aid 
is contingent upon enrollment in and successful  completion of courses that are counted 
as credit toward their current degree program. To receive  the maximum amount of 
federal financial aid for which they may be eligible, students must enroll each semester 
in at least 36 units  that count toward their current degree level. (See separate guidance 
regarding  integrated degree completion.) Students should consult with their designated 
college liaison in The HUB regarding  billing and financial aid, particularly for early 
completion, longer -than standard completion, or integrated undergraduate and 
master’s degree programs .   
• International Students: Im migration status for students in F -1 and J -1 non -immigrant 
status is tied to making normal progress toward completing degree requirements . 
Therefore, F -1 and J -1 students who are considering completing their  degree 
requirements early, anticipating longer- than- standard completion, or moving from an 
undergraduate to a graduate student classification ( integrated undergraduate -graduate 
study) should consult with their designated  advisor in the Office of International Education (OIE) to ensure compliance with  immigration regulations.  
 