MLT Student Handbook 2023 - 2024 
7 Additional University Resources  
7.1 The HUB Student Services Center  
thehub@andrew.cmu.edu and http://www.cmu.edu/hub/   
The HUB is located in Warner Hall, Lower Level. The HUB staff delivers comprehensive service 
and counsel to students and families regarding financial aid, billing and payment, registration and academic records. The Assistant Directors in The HUB serve as contacts for specific colleges 
 and assist enrolled students with key aspects of the enrollment process.  Students can find their 
assigned HUB Assistant Director on their Student Information Online (SIO) Resource 
page.  Questions that need specialized, in- depth attention can be directed to the student' s 
assigned Assistant Director.  For general questions and information, students may email The 
HUB or call 412 -268-8186.  
7.2 Student Information Online (SIO)  
Student Information Online (SIO) is a secure site where students can find important, personalized information, including E -Bills and student account information, financial aid s tatus 
and eligibility, grades and QPA, and course schedules. Students can update their contact 
information  (and that of their spouse or partner); sign up for E -Check & E -Refund; authorize 
their spouses, domestic partners  or other individual s to receive a copy of their E -Bill; request 
verifications;  view their ho using and meal plan assignments;  and much more. Students can log 
on to SIO by going to www.cmu.edu/hub/sio
 and entering their Andrew User ID and password.  
On SIO, students will designate an emergency contact address of a relative or family friend to be contacted in the case of an emergency. If students do not want their name and address 
publ ished in the campus directory, they must notify the HUB in writing.  
7.3 ID Cards  
Graduate students can obtain their ID card from their program manager, department, or college . These cards identify their holders as members of the campus community.  Student 
cards  are deactivated upon the cardholder’s separation from the university.  
 Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and partners of graduate students , which allow them 
to ac cess Carnegie Mellon’s campus. These cards are available through The HUB to spouse s and 
partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the current academic year in a full -time 
graduate degree program. Th e card is valid for one year. For information about domestic 
partner registration, visit the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs webpage: http://www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/dean/domestic_partner/
. 
For more information about student and affiliate ID cards (spouse, domestic partners and dependent children), please visit: http://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/cardtypes.html
.  
7.4 Transcripts 
Information about and instructions for ordering transcripts are available at: www.cmu.edu/hub/transcripts.html . Transcript questions may be directed to 
esg-
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 31 
 transcripts@andrew.cmu.edu . 
 
7.5 Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross- registration  
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/CrossRegister.html  
Cross- registration provides an opportunity for enriched educational programs by permitting 
full-time graduate students to cross -register for courses (usually no more than one per 
semester) at a Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) Institution. Full -time Carnegie 
Mellon degree students are eligible and the PCHE course may not count towards full- time 
status unless the student is enrolled in an inter -university program. Students interested in 
taking advantage of this opportunity should be familiar with the Policy on Grades for Transfer 
Courses already outline d previously in this handbook.  
Note : Suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer 
credit only if their college and department policies allow this.  
7.6 Student Privacy Rights and FERPA  
www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/StPrivacy.html  
This university policy notifies students of their rights under the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). According to FERPA, students have the right to:  
• inspect and review their education records;  
• request an amendment to their education record if they believe they are inaccurate or misleading;  
• request a hearing if their request for an amendment is not resolved to their satisfaction;  
• consent to disclosure of perso nally identifiable information from their education 
records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent;  
• file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education Family Policy Compliance Office if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated.  
For questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint, contact John 
Papinchak, University Registrar, jp7p@andrew.cmu.edu
, in Enrollment Services.  
7.7 Academic Calendar  
The official academic calendar is published by Enrollment Services. It is not uncommon for 
departments and colleges to have academic requirements that differ from or are in addition to those presented in the academic calendar provided to the campus community by Enrollment 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 32 
 Services. You may find the CMU academic calendar here : www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar.html . 
This provides information o n deadlines including registration dates, class start dates, add/drop 
deadlines, and more.  
7.8 Professional Development  
The Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) 
(www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/career/index.html ) at Carnegie Mellon is a centralized career 
center staffed by a team of seasoned and highly -educated professionals who orchestrate the 
career exploration, experiential learning, and career networking needs of students and alumni.   
 
CMU's career and professional development model is grounded in discipline -specific career 
development, experiential learning, and employ er relations shaped by strong connections with 
the university's seven academic colleges. The center's success is founded upon a solid 
understanding of career and professional development theory, integration of technology, and 
an unwavering commitment to providing personalized attention towards meeting the unique 
individual needs of students, alumni, and employers. The CDPC is located on the Lower Level of 
the University Center, 412 -268- 2064. 
 
The Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offers a robust 
schedule of professio nal development opportunities. Some are geared towards a specific 
population (master’s students, PhD students at the beginning of their program, graduate 
students seeking tenure track positions, etc.) and others are open to all graduate students (time management , balancing, staying healthy). A full schedule of programs can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/graduate/
. 
7.9 University Libraries  
http://library.cmu.edu  
The University Libraries offers a wide range of information resources and services supporting graduate students in course -work, research, teaching, an d publishing. The library licenses and 
purchases books, journals, media and other needed materials in various formats. Library liaisons, consultants and information specialists provide in -depth and professional assistance 
and advice in all- things informati on - including locating and obtaining specific resources, 
providing specialized research support, advanced training in the use and management of data. Sign up for workshops and hands -on topic -specific sessions such as data visualization with 
Tableau, clean ing data with OpenRefine, and getting started with Zotero. Weekly drop- in hours 
for Digital Humanities and for Research Data Research Management are scheduled during the academic year. Start at the library home page to find the books, journals and database s you 
need; to identify and reach out to the library liaison in your field; to sign up for scheduled 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 33 
 workshops; and to connect with consultants in scholarly publishing, research data 
management, and digital humanities.  
7.10 Computing Services  
www.cmu.edu/computing/  
Computing Services  is located in Cyert Hall 285. Computing Services develops, maintains,  and 
supports the computing infrastructure for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members,  and staff 
members. This includes the campus wired and wireless networks, public computer labs or “clusters,” cable television and telephone services, computing related documentation and support through the Help Center.  In addition, Computing Services provides standard classroom 
technologies for over 100 lecture halls, classrooms,  and seminar rooms across campus. The 
website contains addition information regarding The Help Center hours, location and contact 
information, computing cluster hours and location, the Carnegie Mellon web portal, computing 
securit y, and policies and guidelines. Students can email the Help Center at 
advisor@andrew.cmu.edu  with questions and for assistance.  
 
7.11 Family and Dependents Resources  
The Graduate Student Assembly website maintains a resource page for spouses, domestic partners, and families of graduate students: www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/resources/family.html
, 
including The Student Parent Association, new mother rooms, and links to resources around campus and the Pittsburgh area.  
Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and domestic partners of graduate students that allow them to access Carnegie Mellon’s campus. These cards are available through The HUB to spouses and partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the current academic year in a full-time graduate degree program. The card is valid for one year. For more information about 
student and affiliate ID cards, please visit: http://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/cardtypes.html
.  
7.12 Domestic Partner Registration  
Carnegie Mellon extends certain benefits to domestic partners of students. Eligible students 
may elect benefits for their domestic partners through the registration process orchestrated by the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs, 3
rd floor Warner Hall.  Informati on regarding the 
benefits avail able for domestic partners, eligibility for domestic partner benefits, registration 
instructions, and forms can be located at: 
www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/dean/domestic_partner/index.html .  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 34 
 7.13 Housing 
The university does not currently offer housing to graduate students. The Office of Housing a nd 
Dining Services does provide  community housing information to assist graduate students who 
are seeking housing in the communities surrounding the university, including information on 
the legal aspects of renting an apartment, moving checklists , and the off- campus housing 
database. This information can be located at: www.cmu.edu/housing/community-
housing/index.html .  
7.14 Dining  
www.cmu.edu/dining/   
Dining services and operations are offered through the Office of Housing and Dining Services. 
The office operates  dining locations open around campus  in academic buildings, Hunt Library , 
and the University Center. These locations offer flexible hours with options from the ear ly 
morning through late night. The Dining Service website contains information about dining locations, hours of operation, graduate student dining plans forms, nutritional information, and weekly menus for dining locations.  
7.15 Parking and Transportation  
www.cmu.edu/parking/  
Graduate students will find informat ion about parking and availability, parking policies, 
transportation options and Port Authority Transit usage with a valid university ID on the Parking and Transportation Services site. The Parking and Transportation Services office is located in 
the lower  level o f the East Campus Garage. There is limited parking on campus and the varying 
permit rat es can be found on the website.  All parking areas of campus are either by permit, 
metered , or by the hour in the garage. Parking and Transportation Services will ticket any car 
parked in a permit area without a  permit or at an expired meter.  The city monitors the metered 
parking along Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech Streets and will ticket at expired meters as 
well.  
The university offers shuttle and escort services operated through University Po lice. The Shuttle 
Service operates several routes within Oakland, Squirrel Hill and Shadyside areas, as well as to 
University sites located outside of the main campus.  The Escort Service offers vehicle routes within a radius of campus between 6:30 pm -6 am daily. Information regarding up-to-date 
shuttle and escort schedules, pick-up/drop- off locations, routes and usage policies can be found 
at: www.cmu.edu/police/shuttleandescort/
.  
SafeWalk provides another option to campus community members walking across and around campus during late -night hours. SafeWalk is a student volunteer organization that provides 
campus escorts for all members of the Carnegie Mellon community. SafeWalk operates nightly 
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 35 
 during the regular academic year (except certain holidays and break periods) from 10pm until 
2am. Students, faculty , and staff may request an escort by calling 412 -268- SAFE (8 -7233 from a 
campus phone), by approaching an escort team, or by stopping by the SafeWalk dispatch area in the  University Center, Lower Level near the Post Office Package Pick -Up window, between 
10pm -2am. SafeWalk will escort to locations approximately one mile from campus.  Additional 
SafeWalk information can be found at: www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/safewalk
. 
7.16 Copying, Printing and Mailing Services  
Carnegie Mellon offers community members easy access to FedEx, copy centers, printing and mailing services, and postal services. More information regarding these services, locations and contact information can be found in The Word at:  www.cmu.edu/student- affairs/theword//campus_resources/copyprintmail.html
.  
7.17 University Center  
www.cmu.edu/university- center  
The University Center is a centerpiece of the campus that provides a space for special events, physical fitness, student organizations and various activities, as well as accommodating retail and dining services. As the campus crossroads, the University Center functions as a place for 
students to interact, get invol ved and enjoy new experiences. Visit the University Center 
website for information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness r ooms and 
schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Center space, the public prayer room, student organizations , and the Wright- Rogal Chapel.  
The University Center Information Desk is the location if you want to know about upcoming campus events or have questions about Carnegie Mellon in general. You can c all the 
Information Desk at 412 -268- 2107. The Information Desk not only provides information about 
campus events, but also sells postage stamps, makes copies, sends faxes, distributes campus maps, man ages a lost & found, and has informational brochures about Pittsburgh and the 
campus.  
7.18 Athletic/Fitness Facilities  
 www.cmu.edu/athletics  
For the participant or the spectator, Ca rnegie Mellon offers intercollegiate athletics, intramural 
sports, physical education classes and club sports. The Athletics Department also offers aerobics c lasses in the University Center, as well as occasional workshops and instruction 
related to fitness and health. The Athletics Office is located in the Skibo Gymnasium.  
MLT Graduate Student Handbook  Page 36 
 The University Center’s recreational facilities include an eight -lane pool, racquetball and squash 
courts, class studios , a fully -equipped fitness center , and a gym for basketball and volleyball. All 
users must present a current Carnegie Mellon Card to use these facilities.  
7.19 CMU Alert  
www.cmu.edu/alert   
CMU Alert sends voice and/or text messages to registered phones in the event of a campus 
emergency that threatens public safety or during tests of the system in the spring and fall semesters. Students can register for CMU Alert through the website.  