PhD_Student_Handbook_2023-2024
2 The Language Technologies Institute  
2.1 Pittsburgh Campus Location  
The Language Technologies Institute is located primarily on the 5th and 6th floors of the  Gates 
Hillman Complex (GHC) on Carnegie Mellon’s Pittsburgh campus.  The address and contact 
information of the LTI are  shown below.  
Language Technologies Institute  
Carnegie Mellon University  
5000 Forbes Avenue  
Gates Hillman Complex  
Pittsburgh, PA 15241 -3891  
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 13 
 412-268-6298 (fax)  
http://www.lti.cs.cmu.edu/   
 
Office locations for faculty, staff, and Ph.D. students can be found on the LTI website.  
2.2 Office Space 
Most Ph.D. students in residence on the Pittsburgh campus are given an office in which to study 
and do research. Typically, offices are shared with other Ph.D. students, but they may also be shared with staff, visitors, or other members of the LTI. 
Offices are assigned by the LTI’s Office Manager (see Section 1.2 , Department Personnel, for 
contact information).  
2.3 Mailboxes and Office Supplies  
Mailboxes and office supplies are in GHC 5404.  
2.4 Photocopies and Printers  
Printers and photocopies are available to LTI students. The use of a photocopier or printer 
requires you to log in with your CMU ID card. LTI students may use printers/photocopiers 
scattered throughout the School of Computer Science buildings , but the machines in GHC 5404 
and GHC 6604  are the most convenient . The SCS Computing Facilities  publishes a list of printers 
online at https://computing.cs.cmu.edu/desktop/printer -list. 
2.5 Computers for LTI Ph.D.  Students  
Ph.D. students are responsible for having their own laptop computers to support their education 
and research. Students are free to choose their own operating system (e.g., Linux, MacOs, 
Windows).  
Many Ph.D. advisors also provide access to computer clusters, cloud computing, or other resources to support computationally -intense research.  
Ph.D. students are given access to the LTI’s computer cluster on an as- needed basis, to be used for 
course assignments, directed study projects, and/or capstone projects.  The LTI cluster provides 
storage and computation for projects involving large datasets and/or lengthy computation.  
Ph.D. students receive two types of user ids: An Andrew id and a CS id. All CMU students have 
an Andrew id. Computer Science students also have a CS id that provides access to SCS -specific 
resources (e.g., computer clusters). CS ids are being phased out very slowly, so it is likely that you will need both types of user id.  
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 14 
 The School of Computer Science has a Help Center in GHC 4201 . It can be contacted at 
help@cs.cmu.edu  , extension 8 -4231 from a campus phone, or 412 -268-4231 from an outside line  
(M- F, 9am- 5pm) . 