PhD_Student_Handbook_2023-2024
6 Additional University Resources  
6.1 The HUB Student Services Center  
thehub@andrew.cmu.edu and http://www.cmu.edu/hub/   
The HUB is located in Warner Hall, Lower Level.  The HUB staff delivers comprehensive service and counsel to students and families regarding financial aid, billing and payment,  ID cards, and 
registration  and academic records. The Assistant Directors in The HUB serve as contacts for 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 34 
 specific colleges and assist enrolled students with key aspects of the  enrollment process. Student 
can find their assigned HUB Assistant Director on their Student Information Online (SIO) 
Resource page . Questions that need specialized, in -depth attention can be directed to the 
student's assigned Assistant Director . For general questions and information, students may email 
The HUB or call 412 -268-8186. 
6.2 Student Information Online (SIO)  
Student Information Online (SIO) is a secure site where students can find important, personalized information, including E -Bills and student account information, financial aid status 
and eligibility, grades and QPA, and course schedules. Students can updat e their and their spouses 
or domestic partner's contact information, sign up for E -Check & E -Refund, authorize their 
spouses, domestic partners or other individual to receive a copy of their E -Bill, request 
verifications, view their housing and meal plan assignments, and much more. Students can log on to SIO by going to www.cmu.edu/hub/sio
 and entering their Andrew User ID and password.  
On SIO, students are encourage d to keep their current local address up to date. This supports a 
university initiative to have accurate living information for students for official program/department/college/university notices, the ability to facilitate wellness checks, ensure international students are in compliance with visa requirements.   
It will designate an emergency contact address of a relative or family friend to be contacted in the 
case of an emergency . If students do not want their name and address published in the campus 
directory, they must notify the HUB in writing.  
6.3 ID Cards  
Graduate students can obtain their ID card from The HUB once they have been entered into SIO for the semester. These cards identify their holders as members of the campus community . Student 
cards are deactivated upon the cardholder’s separation from the university.  
 Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and partners of graduate students that allow them to access Carnegie Mellon’s campus. These cards are available through The HUB to spouses and 
partners of grad uate students who are enrolled for the current academic year in a full- time 
graduate degree program . The card is valid for one year .  For information about domestic partner 
registration, visit the Office of the Dean of Students webpage : 
https://www.cmu.edu/student-
affairs/dean/domestic- partner/  . 
For more information about student and affiliate ID cards (spouse, domestic partners and dependent childre n), please visit: http://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/sponsored.html
.  
 
 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 35 
 6.4 Transcripts  
All units required for the Ph.D.  degree, whether earned in residence or tr ansferred from another 
institution, must be recorded on the transcript within ten years of the date on which the student 
enrolled in the program (CMU policy), or less if required by a more restrictive department, school, or college policy. This statutory p eriod can be extended by the SCS Associate Dean for Graduate 
Education for special circumstances that do not make it possible for the student to complete the requirements within the statutory period. Any request for a waiver of the statute of limitations for the Ph.D. degree must be approved by the Department Head and by the SCS Associate Dean 
for Graduate Education. The waiver request must explain the exceptional circumstances that warrant an extension. For cases in which a waiver is granted, the waiver wi ll cover specific 
courses and will specify a time period for completion of the program.  
See also the ‘Duration of Study’ policy.  
Information about and instructions for ordering transcripts are available at:  
https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/student- records/transcripts/index.html
  
Transcript questions may be directed to cmuregistrar@andrew.cmu.edu . 
6.5 Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross -registrat ion 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and-student -life/cross- college -university -
registration.html  
Cross-r egistration provides an opportunity for enriched educational programs by permitting full -
time graduate students to cross- register for courses (usually no more than one per semester) at a 
Pittsburgh Council on Higher Educa tion (PCHE)  Insti tution.  
Full- time Carnegie Mellon degree students are eligible and the PCHE course may not count 
towards full -time status unless the student is enrolled in an inter- university program. Students 
interest ed in taking advantage of this opportunity should be familiar with the Policy on Grades 
for Transfer Courses already outlined previously in this handbook.  
6.6 Student Privacy Rights and FERPA 
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student- and-student -life/privacy -rights -students.html   
 This university policy notifies students of their rights under the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) . According to FERPA, students have the right to:  
• inspect and review their education records 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 36 
 • request an amendment to their education record if they believe they are inaccurate or 
misleading  
• request a hearing if their request for an amendment is not resolved to their satisfaction  
• consent to disclosure of personally identifiable information from their education records, 
except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent  
• file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education Family Policy Compliance Office 
if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated  
For questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint, contact John 
Papinchak, University R egistrar, jp7p@andrew.cmu.edu , in Enrollment Services.  
6.7 Professional Development  
The Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)  at Carnegie Mellon is a centralized 
career center staffed by a team of seasoned and highly -educated professionals who orchestrate the 
career exploration, experiential learning, and career networ king needs of students  and alumni.  
CMU's career and professional development model is grounded in discipline -specific career 
development, experiential learning, and employer relations shaped by strong connections with 
the university's seven academic colleg es. The center's success is founded upon a solid 
understanding of career and professional development theory, integration of technology, and an unwavering commitment to providing personalized attention towards meeting the unique individual needs of student s, alumni, and employers. The CDPC is located on the Lower Level of 
the University Center, 412 -268-2064 . 
The Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offers a robust schedule of professional development opportunities. Some are geared towards a specific 
population (master’s students, Ph.D.  students at the beginning of their program, graduate 
students seeking tenure track positions, etc.) and others are open to all graduate students (time management, balancing, staying healthy) . A full schedule of programs can be found at: 
http://www.cmu.edu/graduate/
. 
6.8 University Libraries  
http://search.library.cmu.edu  
There are three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon:  Hunt Library, Mellon Library,  and the Sorrells 
Library with the combined mission of providing access and help  to graduate students in finding 
the information needed, teaching graduate students to evaluate available information and use reliable sources. The libraries’ digital resources and services, including off -campus/ wireless 
access to databases and e -journals, offer online access. There are also two neighboring libraries 
open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students: Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh and University of Pittsburgh Libraries . Visit the University Libraries website for information about all mentioned 
library locations and hours, on -line resources,  and FAQ’s.  
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 37 
 6.9 Computing Services  
Computing Services  is located in Cyert Hall – Room 285.  Computing Services develops, 
maintains,  and supports the computing infrastructure for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty 
members and staff members. This includes the campus wired and wireless networks, public 
computer labs or “clusters,” cable television and telephone services, computing related 
docu mentation and support through the Help Center. In addition, Computing Services provides 
standard classroom technologies for over 100 lecture halls, classrooms,  and seminar rooms across 
campus.  The website contains addition information regarding The Help Ce nter hours, location 
and contact information, computing cluster hours and location, the Carnegie Mellon web portal, 
computing security and policies and guidelines. Students can email the Help Center at it -
help@cmu.edu or  call 412 -268-4357 (HELP) with questions and for assistance.  
6.10 Family and Dependents Resources 
The Graduate Student Assembly website maintains a resource page for spouses, domestic 
partners and families of graduate students: https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/Resources -for-
Graduate -Students/index.html  ,  i ncluding Th e Student Parent Association, new mother rooms, 
and links to resources around campus and the Pittsburgh area.  
Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and domestic partners of graduate students that allow 
them to access Carnegie Mellon’s campus. These cards are available through The HUB to spouses 
and partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the current academic year in a full- time 
graduate degree program . The card is valid for one year . For more information about student and 
affiliate ID cards, please visit: http://www.cmu.edu/idplus/idcards/sponsored.html . 
6.11 Domestic Partner Registration 
Carnegie Mellon extends certain benefits to domestic partners of students. Eligible students may 
elect benefits for their domestic partners through the registration process orchestrated by the Office of the Dean of Students , Warner Hall, room 321 . Information  regarding the benefits avail -
able for domestic partners, eligibility for domestic partner benefits, registration instructions and forms can be located at: 
https://www.cmu.edu/student -affairs/dean/domestic-
partner/index.html. 
6.12 Hou sing  
The university does not currently offer housing to graduate students .  The Office of Housing and 
Dining Services does provide  community housing information to assist graduate students who are 
seeking housing in the communities surrounding the university, including information on the legal aspects of renting an apartment, moving checklists and the off -campus housing database.  
This information can be located at:   https://www.cmu.edu/housing/our- communities/index.html
. 
 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 38 
 6.13 Dining  
www.cmu.edu/dining/   
Dining services and operations are offered through the Office of Housing and Dining Services. The 
office operates dining locations open in and around campus. These  locations offer flexible hours 
with options from the early morning through late night.  The Dining Service website contains 
information about dining locations, hours of operation, graduate student dining plans forms, 
nutritional information, and daily specials for dining locations. ’ 
6.14 Parking and Transportation  
www.cmu.edu/parking/  
Graduate students will find information about parking and availability, parking policies, transportation options and Port Authority Transit usage with a valid university ID on the Parkin g 
and Transportation Services site . The Parking and Transportation Services office is located in the 
East Campus Garage (by Forbes Avenue entrance).  There is limited parking on campus and the varying permit rates can be found on the website . All parking a reas of campus are either by permit, 
metered or by the hour in the garage . Parking and Transportation Services will ticket any car 
parked in a permit area without a permit or at an expired meter . The city monitors the metered 
parking along Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech Streets and will ticket at expired meters as well.  
The university offers shuttle and escort services operates in the evening/overnight and provides free transportation from campus to within a block of your home in the Oakland, Squirrel Hill,  and 
Shadyside neighborhoods, as well as to university  sites located outside of the main campus.  The 
Escort Service offers vehicle routes within a radius of campus between 6:30 pm- 4:15 am daily.  You 
must show your CMU ID to board.   
Information regard ing up -to-date shuttle and escort schedules, pick -up/drop- off locations, routes 
and usage policies can be found at: https://www.cmu.edu/parking/transport/escort.html
 .  
6.15 Copying, Printing, and Mailing Services  
Tartan Ink offers  community members easy access to UPS services, copy centers, printing and 
mailing services, and postal services. Tartan Ink is located on the Lower Level of the Cohon University Center.  More information regarding these services, business hours, locations and 
contact information can be foun d on the Office of Tartan Ink website at:  
https://www.cmu.edu/tartanink/aboutus/index.html
. 
6.16 University Center  
www.cmu.edu/university -center  
The Jared L. Cohon  University Center is a centerpiece of the campus that provides a space for 
special events, physical fitness, student organizations and various activities, as well as 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 39 
 accommodating retail and dining services. As the campus crossroads, the University Center 
functions as a place for students to interact, get involved and enjoy new experiences . Visit the 
University Center website for information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness rooms and schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Center space, the public prayer room, 
student organizations, and the Wright -Rogal Chapel.  
The University Center Information Desk (first floor of the Cohon Center next to Wean Commons 
and Kirr Commons) is the lo cation if you want to know about upcoming campus events or have 
questions about Carnegie Mellon in general, call the Information Desk at 412 -268-2107. The 
Information Desk not only provides information about campus events, but also sells postage stamps, makes copies, sends faxes, distributes campus maps, manages a lost & found, and has information brochures about Pittsburgh and the campus.  
6.17 Athletic/Fitness Facilities  
 www.cmu.edu/athletics  
For the participant or the spectator, Carnegie Mellon offers intercollegiate athletics, intramural 
sports, physical education classes and club sports. The Athletics Department also offers aerobics 
classes in the University Center as well as occasional workshops and instruction related to fitness and health . The administrative offices are located in the Cohon University Fitness Center . 
The University Center’s recreational facilities include an eight -lane pool, racquetball and squash 
courts, aerobics room, fitness center and gym for basketball and volleyball.  With renovations to 
Skibo Gym and the new Highmark Center for Health, Wellness , and Athletic s scheduled for 
completion in 2024, the strength and conditioning facility has been temporarily place d on the 
lawn next to the outdoor basketball court close to the Donner locker rooms, Gesling Stadium, and Weigand Gymnasium. All users must present a valid  CMU ID to use these facilities.  
6.18 CMU Alert  
www.cmu.edu/alert   
CMU Alert sends voice and/or text messages to registered phones in the event of a campus emergency that threatens public safety or during tests of the system in the spring and fall semesters. Students are automatically registered for CMU -Alert using the current contact 
information that has been entered into the Student Information Online (SIO): 
https://www.cmu.edu/hub/sio/about.html . 
 
 
  