PhD_Student_Handbook_2023-2024  
Appendix A  
2023 -2024  
Highlighted University Resources for Graduate Students  
Note: The following pages are meant to broadly include only some of the resources available to 
graduate students.  It is not an exhaustive appendix of resources, and students are strongly encouraged to visit the various websites linked below for the most u p-to-date information.   
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 41 
 A.1 Key Resources for Graduate Student Support  
A.1.1 Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs  
https://www.cmu.edu/graduate   graded@cmu.edu  
The Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs provides university -wide support for all graduate 
students and academic programs, with a focus on supporting graduate student success at 
Carnegie Mellon.  Examples of resources offered through the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral 
Affairs include, but are not limited to:  
• Website with university resources, contact information for CMU 
programs and services, possible financial assistance and potential fundin g 
opportunities, and various procedural and policy information  
• Newsletter to all graduate students with information on activities, resources, and opportunities  
• Professional development seminars and workshops, and various programming and events for the gra duate student community  
•  
The Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs also works directly with the colleges and 
departments on issues related to graduate students and serve as a resource for developing policy 
and procedures.  The Office of Graduate and  Postdoctoral Affairs partners with many other offices 
and organizations, such as the Graduate Student Assembly, to support the holistic graduate 
student educational experience.  
A.1.2 Office of the Dean of Students  
https://www.cmu.edu/student- affairs/dean/   
The Office of the Dean of Students provides central leadership of the metacurricular experience 
at Carnegie Mellon including the coordination of student support.  Grad uate students will find 
the enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration and Parental Accommodations in the Office of the Dean of Students or on their website. This Office also manages the Student 
Emergency Support Funding process. There are cu rrently three forms of support funding for 
enrolled students: emergency student loans, student parental loans, and the Tartan Emergency 
Support Fund. Inquiring students will be provided with additional information about the various 
types of funding during a consultation meeting with a member of the Dean of Students team. Tuition costs are not eligible for Student Emergency Support funding.  
College Liaisons and the Student Support Resources team serve as additional resources for 
graduate students. College Liaisons are senior members of the Division of Student Affairs who 
work with departments and colleges addressing student concerns across a wide range of issues. 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 42 
 College Liaisons are identified on the Important Contacts list in Student Information Online 
(SIO). The Student Support Resources team offers an additional level of support for students who 
are navigating a wide range of life events. Student Support Resources staff members work in partnership with campus and community resources to provide coordination of care and support 
appropriate to each student’s situation.  
A.1.3 The Division of  Student Affairs  
The Division of Student Affairs includes (not an exhaustive list):  
• Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation  
• Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)  
• Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion  
• Cohon University Center  
• Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)  
• Dining Services  
• Office of Community Standards and Integrity (OCSI)  
• Office of Student Leade rship, Involvement, and Civic Engagement (SLICE) 
 
• University Health Services (UHS)  
• Wellness Initiatives  
A.1.4 Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion  
https://www.cmu.edu/student- diversity/   
Diversity and inclusion have a singular place among the values of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion actively cultivates a strong, diverse and inclusive 
community capable of living out these values and advancing research, creativity, learning and development that changes the world.  
The Center offers resources to enhance an inclusive and transformative student experience in 
dimensions such as access, success, campus climate and intergroup dialog ue. Additionally, the 
Center supports and connects historically underrepresented students and those who are first in their family to attend college in a setting where students’ differences and talents are appreciated and reinforced, both at the graduate an d undergraduate level. Initiatives coordinated by the 
Center include, but are not limited to:  
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 43 
 • First generation/first in family to attend college programs 
• LGBTQ+ Initiatives  
• Race and ethnically focused programs, including Inter -University Graduate Student s of 
Color Series (SOC) and PhD SOC Network  
• Women’s empowerment programs, including Graduate Women’s 
Gatherings (GWGs)  
A.1.5 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities  
https://www.cmu.edu/disability -resources/   
The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University has a continued mission to 
provide physical, digital, and programmatic access to ensure that students with disabilities have 
equal access to their educational experience.  The Office works to ensure that qualified individuals 
receive reasonable accommodations as guaranteed by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 
and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Students who would like to receive 
accommodations can begin the process through Disability Resources' secure online portal or 
email access@andrew.cmu.edu to begin the interactive accommodation Process.  
Students with physical, sensory, cognitive, or emotional disabilities are encoura ged to self -
identify with the Office of Disability Resources and request needed accommodations. Any 
questions about the process can be directed to access@andrew.cmu.edu, or call (412) 268 - 6121.  
A.1.6 Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovati on  
https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/   
The Eberly Center offers a wide variety of confidential, consultation services and professional 
development programs to support graduate students as teaching assistants or instructors of 
record during their time at Carnegie Mellon University and as future faculty members at other 
institutions. Regardless of one's current or future teaching context and duties, Eberly’s goal is to 
disseminate evidence- based teaching strategies in ways that are accessible and actionable. 
Programs and services include campus- wide Graduate Student Instructor Orientation events and 
our Future Faculty Program, both of which are designed to help participants be effectiv e and 
efficient in their teaching roles. The Eberly Center also assists departments in creating and 
conducting customized programs to meet the specific needs of their graduate student instructors. 
Specific information about Eberly Center support for graduate students is found at:  
https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/graduatestudentsupport/   
 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 44 
 A.1.7 Graduate Student Assembly  
https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/   
The Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) is the branch of Carnegie Mellon Student Government 
that represents and advocates for the diverse interests of all graduate students at CMU. GSA is 
composed of representatives from the different graduate programs and departments who want to 
improve the graduate student experience at the different levels of the university. GSA is funded by the Student Activities Fee from all graduate students. GSA passes legislation, allocates student 
activities funding, advocates for legislative action locally and in Washington D.C. on behalf of 
graduate student issues and needs, and otherwise acts on behalf of all graduate student interests. 
GSA’s recent accomplishments are a testament to their making a difference, and steps to implementing the vision laid out by the strategic plan.  
https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/about- the-gsa/strategic -plan.html
  
GSA offers an expanding suite of social programming on and off -campus to bring graduate 
students from different departments together and build a sense of community. GSA is the host of the Graduate Student Lounge on the 3rd floor of the Cohon University Center. GSA also maintains 
a website of graduate student resources on and off -campus. GSA continues to rely on student 
feedback to improve the graduate student experience at CMU. Feel free to contact them at 
gsa@cmu.edu
 to get involved, stop by their office in the Cohon University Center Room 304 or 
become a representative for your department.  
A.1.8 Office of International Education (OIE)  
https://www.cmu.e du/oie/   
Carnegie Mellon hosts international graduate and undergraduate students who come from more than 90 countries. The Office of International Education (OIE) is the liaison to the University for 
all non -immigrant students and scholars, as well the repository for study abroad opportunities. 
OIE provides many services including: advising on personal, immigration, study abroad, academic, 
and social and acculturation issues; presenting programs of interest such as international career 
workshops, tax workshops, and cross- cultural and immigration workshops; international 
education and statistics on international students in the United States; posting pertinent information to students through email and the OIE website and conducting orientation and pre -
departure programs.  
A.1.9 Veterans and Military Community  
https://www.cmu.edu/veterans/   
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 45 
 Military veterans are a vital part of the Carnegie Mellon Uni versity community. Graduate 
students can find information on applying for veteran education benefits, campus services, 
veteran’s groups at CMU, and non -educational resources through the Veterans and Military 
Community website. There are also links and conn ections to veteran resource in the Pittsburgh 
community. The ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator can be reached at  urovaedbenefits@andrew.cmu.edu
 or 412 -268-8747.  
A.1.10  Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline  
https://www.cmu.edu/hr/resources/ethics -hotline.html  
The health, safety and well- being of the university community are top priorities at Carnegie 
Mellon University. CMU provides a hotline that all members of the university community should use to confidentially report suspected unethical activity, violations of university policy, or 
violations of law. Students, faculty and  staff can anonymously file a report by calling 1 -844-587-
0793 or visiting  
https:// cmu.ethicspoint.com /. All submissions are reported to appropriate university 
personnel and handled discreetly.  
The hotline is NOT an emergency service. For emergencies, call University 
Police at 412- 268- 2323.  
A.1.11  Policy Against Retaliation  
It is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University to protect from retaliation any individual who 
makes a good faith report of a suspected violation of any applicable law or regulation, university 
Policy or procedure, any contractual obligation of the university,  and any report made pursuant 
to the Carnegie Mellon University Code of Business Ethics and Conduct.  
Additional details regarding the Policy Against Retaliation are available at:  
 https://www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative -and-governance/whistleblower.html   
A.2 Key Offices for Academic & Research Support  
A.2.1 Computing and Information Resources  
https://www.cmu.edu/computing/   
Computing Services maintains and supports computing resources for the campus community, 
including the campus wired and wireless networks, printing, computer labs, file storage, email 
and software catalog. As members of this community, we are all responsible for the security of 
these shared resources. Be sure to review the Safe Computing 
(https://www.cmu.edu/computing/safe/ ) section and the University Computing Policy 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 46 
 (https://www.cmu.edu/policies/information -technology/comput ing.html )  
Visit the Computing Services website ( https://www.cmu.edu/computing/ ) to learn more. For 
assistance the Computing Services Help Center is available at 412 -268-4357 (HELP) or 
ithelp@cmu.edu .  
A.2.2  Student Academic Success Center  
https://www.cmu.edu/student- success/  
The Student Academic Success Center’s (SASC) work to support success focuses on creating 
spaces for students to engage in their coursework and  approach to learning through many group 
and individual program options.  SASC supports student success by providing academic coaching, 
subject -specific tutoring, effective communication strategies, accommodations for students with 
disabilities, and language support for multilingual learners. SASC engages with faculty and staff 
to improve the coordination and professional development for academic advisors. Visit the SASC 
website for more information about services offered in areas such as communication and language 
support; language and cross- cultural support; and learning support.   
A.2.3  University Libraries  
https://www.library.cmu.edu/  
The University Libraries offers a wide range of information, resources, and services supporting 
graduate students in coursework, research, teaching, and publishing. The library licenses and 
purchases books, journals, media, and other needed materials in various formats. Library 
liaisons, consultants, and information specialists provide in -depth and professional assistance 
and advice in all -things information, including:  
• Locating and obtaining specific resources 
• Providing specialized research support  
• Advanced training in the use and management of data 
Sign up for workshops and hands- on topic- specific sessions such as data visualization with 
Tableau, cleaning data with OpenRefine, and getting started with Zotero. Weekly drop -in hours 
for Digital Humanities and for Research Data Research Management are sched uled during the 
academic year. Start at the library home page to find the books, journals, and databases you need; to identify and reach out to the library liaison in your field; to sign up for scheduled workshops; 
and to connect with consultants in scholarly publishing, research data management, and digital 
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 47 
 humanities.  
A.2.4  Research at CMU  
https://www.cmu.edu/research/   
The primary purpose of research at the university is the advancement of knowledge in all fields in 
which the university is active. Research is regarded as one of the university’s major contributions 
to society and as an  essential element in education, particularly at the graduate level and in faculty 
development. Research activities are governed by several university policies. Guidance and more 
general information are found by visiting the Research at Carnegie Mellon website.  
A.2.5  Office of Research Integrity & Compliance  
https://www.cmu.edu/research- compliance/   
The Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) is designed to support research at 
Carnegie Mellon University. The staff work with researchers to ensure research is conducted with 
integrity and in accordance with federal and Pennsylvania regulation. ORIC assists researchers 
with human subject research, conflicts of in terest, responsible conduct of research, export 
controls, and institutional animal care & use. ORIC also provides consultation,  advice, and review 
of allegations of research misconduct.  
A.3 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety  
A.3.1 Counseling & Psychological  Services  
https://www.cmu.edu/counseling/   
Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) affords the opportunity for students to talk privately 
about academic and personal concerns in a safe, confidential setting. An initial consultation at 
CaPS can help clarify the nature of the concern, provide immediate support, and explore further 
options if needed. These may include a referral for counseling within CaPS, to another resource at Carnegie Mellon, or to another resource within the larger Pittsburgh community. CaPS also 
provides workshops and group sessions on mental health related topics specifically for graduate 
students on campus. CaPS services are provided at no cost. Appointments can be made in person, 
or by telephone at 412 -268-2922.  
A.3.2  Health Services  
https://www.cmu.edu/HealthServices/   
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 48 
 University Health Services (UHS) is staffed by physicians, advanced practice clinicians and 
registered nurses who provide general medical care, allergy injections, first aid, gynecological care, 
and contraception as well as on -site pharmaceuticals. The CMU Student Insurance Plan covers 
most visit fees to see the physicians and advanced practice clinicians & nurse visits. Fees for prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral to the emergency 
room or specialists are the student’s responsibility and students should review the UHS website 
and their insurance plan for detailed information about the university health insurance requirement and fees.  
UHS also has a registered dietician and health promotion specialists on staff to assist students in 
addressing nutrition, drug and alcohol and other healthy lifestyle issues. In addition to providing 
direct health care, UHS administers the Student Health Insurance Program. The Student Health 
Insurance plan offers a high level of coverage in a wide network of health care providers and hospit als. Appointments can be made by visiting UHS’s website, walk -in, or by telephone, 412 -
268-2157.  
A.3.3  Campus Wellness  
https://www.cmu.edu/wellness/   
At Carnegie Mellon, we believe our individual and collective well- being is rooted in healthy 
connections to each other and to campus resources. The university provides a wide variety of 
wellness, mindfulness and connectedness initiatives and resources designed to help students thrive in side and outside the classroom.  
A.3.4  Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI)  
https://www.cmu.edu/wellbeing/resources/religious -spiritual/index.html  
Carnegie Mellon is committed to the holistic growth of our students, including creating 
opportunities for spiritual and religious practice and exploration. RSLI has relationships with 
local houses of worship from various traditions and many of these groups are members of CMU’s 
Council of Religious Advisors. They also offer programs and initiatives that cross traditional religious boundaries in order to increase knowledge of and appreciation for the full diversity of 
the worldview traditions. RSLI staff are available to support students across the spectrum of religious and spiritual practice and would be more than happy to help you make a connection into 
a community of faith during your time at CMU.  
A.3.5  University Police  
https://www.cmu.edu/police/   x2323  
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 49 
 The University Police Department is located at 4551 Filmore  Street . The department’s services 
include police patrols and call response, criminal investigations, fixed officer and foot officer 
patrols, event security, and crime prevention and education programming as well as bicycle and 
laptop registration. Visit the department’s website for additional information about the staff, 
emergency phone locations, crime prevention, lost and found, fingerprint services, and annual 
statistic reports. Carnegie Mellon University publishes an annual campus security and fire safety report describing the university’s security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault, and fire safety 
policies.  The report also contains statistics about the number and type of crimes committed on the campus and the number and cause of fires in campus residence facilities during the preceding 
three years. Graduate students can obtain  a copy by contacting the University Police Department 
at x2323.  The annual security and fire safety report is also available online at:  
https://www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports/   
A.3.6  Shuttle and Escort Services  
https://www.cmu.edu/parking/transport/  
Parking and Transportation coordinates the Shuttle Service and Escort Service provided for CMU 
students, faculty, and community. The Shuttle & Escort website has full information about these 
services, stops, routes, tracking and schedules.  
A.4 The WORD  
https://www.cmu.edu/student- affairs/theword/  
The WORD is Carnegie Mellon University’s online student handbook and serves as the 
foundation for the department (and so metimes college) handbook. The WORD contains 
university -wide academic policy information and resources, community policies and resources, 
and describes the university level procedures used to review possible violations of these 
standards. It is designed to provide all students with the tools, guidance, and insights to help you 
achieve your full potential as a member of the Carnegie Mellon community. Graduate students are 
encouraged to bookmark this site and refer to it often. University policies can also be  found in full 
text at: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/ . 
 