PhD_Student_Handbook_2023-2024 
5 Financial Support  
5.1 Graduate Student Funding  
For all LTI Ph.D.  students, full funding (tuition plus stipend) is guaranteed for the first year . This 
support is normally continued for at least 5 years, with possibility of further continuance, subject to continuing satisfactory progress and availability of funding. The fellowship includes full tuition 
and fees, and a monthly Ph.D.  stipend that is fixed across SCS. In addition, the LTI pays a 
dependency allowance of 10% of the student's monthly stipend to any student with a child, unless they have a spouse who earns more than $200 per month.  
The impact of outside fellowships and scholarships on departmental support -decrease by the 
amount, added bonus, etc.  
If a Ph.D.  student receives an outside graduate fellowship (e.g., NSF, Fulbright), the student is 
expected to accept it in place of the LTI’s graduate fellowship. As an extra incentive to do so, the LTI will supplement the award so that the student will receive full tuition and a combined stipend 10 percent higher than that of the standard LTI graduate fellowship.  
Students are required to inform the LTI about any external funding that they receive.  
See also the section on “ABD versus ABD in Absentia (ABS) ” (Section 4.3.3 ).  
5.2 Conference Travel Funding  
LTI Ph.D.  Graduate Student Handbook  Page 33 
 Students funded by research projects receive travel funding according to policies set by the 
individual projects. Students who have no project funding may be provided with partial funding, 
with a larger amount available for travel to p resent a refereed conference paper . There is an LTI 
form that must be filled out in advance. 
5.3 Research Funding  
GuSH Research Funding is a source of small research grant funds provided by the Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) and the Provost’s Office and manag ed by the Office of Graduate and 
Postdoc Affairs. See the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs Research Grant Suppor
t page 
for information about the application process and deadlines.  
5.4 Office of the Dean of Students Emergency Support Funding 
Graduate students who find themselves in need of immediate funds for emergency situations 
should contact the Office of the Dean of Student s. All students , regardless of their program, are 
eligible for the Emergency Student Loan , which is an interest -free and emergency- based loan  
repayable within 30 days. It is available through the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs; students 
may apply for the loan by visiting the Office of the Dean of Students, located in Warner Hall 321 during business hours, by email at 
sa-esl@andrew.cmu.edu  or by calling (412) 268 -2075 for an 
appointment.  
5.5 Health Insurance  
Carnegie Mellon has a Student Health Insurance policy requiring full- time, degree seeking 
students to carry adequate medical insurance. Students must either purchase the plan offered by 
the University or an application for a waiver can be made if the student is “enrolled as the 
dependent, partner/spouse or principal in an employer or government -sponsored insurance 
plan .”(See  the Carnegie Mellon University Student Health Insurance Policy  (SHIP) ).  
It is the responsibility of each student to make arrangements with Student Health Services to 
either pay for their insurance at the beginning of the semester or  elect a payment plan over the 
course of the academic year. More information is available at the Student Health Services Web 
site. 