<start course metadata for 48-607 Architectural Agency>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Architectural Agency
Course Number: 48-607
Department: Architecture
Number of Units: N/A
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Theodossis Theo Issaias
Rooms: OFF CAMPUS
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 48-607 Architectural Agency>

<start course description for 48-607 Architectural Agency>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Dig Where You Stand was an international political movement of history writing and making. It was a call to action for workers to take over narratives of their trades and dig out suppressed stories of their labor. The movement's hypothesis was that historical knowledge and research were the necessary steps towards political solidarity and transformation. In this course, we take heed from this movement and dig where we stand; we locate agency across a broad range of stories, processes, events, sites, ideas, contexts, practices, and buildings. The course is organized as a graduate seminar that concludes the cycle of required courses in the history and theory of architecture for the MArch program. Yet, it returns to the history of architecture throughout the twentieth century and treats it as an uncertain, contested, and contingent category. It situates histories of the profession across continents in relation to developments and processes including globalization, imperialism, nationalism, institutionalization, and (post)industrialization. To do so, the course focuses on specific case studies from the collection of the Heinz Architectural Center at Carnegie Museum of Art. By digging in and out this collection, we will attempt to bring to the foreground tensions, questions, relations, interdependencies, and alliances. Students will be assigned to one of two seminar-style classes taking place on Wednesday mornings at the Carnegie Museum of Art. The seminar will use lectures, student presentations and group discussions as the primary format to discuss weekly assignments of texts, case studies, and archival research.
</end course description for 48-607 Architectural Agency>
