<start course metadata for 82-333 China Before the Republic>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: China Before the Republic
Course Number: 82-333
Department: Modern Languages
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Tianxue Yao
Rooms: PH 126A
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 82-333 China Before the Republic>

<start course description for 82-333 China Before the Republic>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: SECTION A: With China as a growing political and economic power, understanding the country through its history and culture becomes necessary for students as responsible citizens of the world. This course is designed to help students, previously unexposed to Chinese culture and civilization, better understand China's past.  By learning about the history of the Middle Kingdom, students will be exposed to the deep and fascinating foundation of Chinese civilization. We will not cover thousands of years of history, but discuss a chronological timeline of dynasties for reference. Areas of focus include the general knowledge of geography, religion, art, ancient lifestyles, and values.  This course is conducted in English with no requirement of prior knowledge of Chinese language.     SECTION B: This course will introduce students to important developments in China's culture and language since the end of the nineteenth century focusing on the interactions between Chinese and Western cultural traditions and the historical, social, and political contexts in which these interactions evolved. The following questions will motivate discussion: What is Chinese culture in the modern world? What is "modern" and what "traditional" Chinese culture? How does high culture interact with folk culture and popular culture? How have education and language policies shaped Chinese cultural identities over the last century? What does it mean to be Chinese in a diaspora context?   This course is conducted in English with no requirement of prior knowledge of Chinese language.
</end course description for 82-333 China Before the Republic>
