<start course metadata for 53-312 Guest Experience in Theme Park Design>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Guest Experience in Theme Park Design
Course Number: 53-312
Department: Entertainment Technology
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Shirley Saldamarco
Rooms: HL 106C
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 53-312 Guest Experience in Theme Park Design>

<start course description for 53-312 Guest Experience in Theme Park Design>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Students will research the history of the Themed Entertainment Industry and study key phases including conceptualization, design, building, management and delivery  involved in creating the total themed entertainment experience.   The class will focus on the importance of creating the total guest experience.  Discussions on story and storytelling will address the different aspects of both franchise and original stories.    The class will also examine the role of architecture and technology and how they are crafted to enhance the overall guest experience. The importance of communication and collaboration across all disciplines and the high professional standards required in every phase in the entertainment industry will be explored.   The process of managing creativity, risking taking, fostering a culture of team support and trust, developing presentation skills and providing valuable peer-review will all be part of the curriculum. Students will individually complete a variety of short assignment, research and presentations.   Students will also work in teams made up of various disciplines and backgrounds.  Assignments will include evaluation of experiences in existing theme parks; proposing a concept for a ride or experience deriving inspiration from a list of options provided by faculty; and developing a design project such as an expansion to an existing theme park, a new restaurant, hotel or other architecture added to an existing complex, a new event or attraction which would include a water, sound and light spectacle or a large scale ?Disney? parade event.   Students and faculty will jointly choose design assignments based on the needs, interest and composition of the class.  The constantly evolving nature of the industry will provide opportunities for topics of discussion which will be identified by both faculty and students.
</end course description for 53-312 Guest Experience in Theme Park Design>
