<start course metadata for 70-483 Advertising and Marketing Communications>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Advertising and Marketing Communications
Course Number: 70-483
Department: Business Administration
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: 70-381
Instructors: Melissa Murphy
Rooms: TEP 2612
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 70-483 Advertising and Marketing Communications>

<start course description for 70-483 Advertising and Marketing Communications>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: It is critical that marketers understand the limitations of marcom tactics as well as how to best leverage and integrate marcom tactics for the strongest, most consistent and authentic brand voice in the targeted marketplace.  The entire IMC process is driven by the customer, and in the case of our discussions in this class, the consumer. The course is designed to help students understand the integrated marketing communications model, the strategy and tools of the marketing mix and what makes an iconic brand. The course is designed in five sections: Part One focuses on understanding brands - iconic brands, terminology and types of branding. Part Two focuses on the understanding of consumer behavior - one of the, if not the most critical part of understanding marketing. Brands are built and defined in the minds of consumers. Part Three focuses on IMC and the framework used by brand management to develop strategy, and understand audience segmentation and brand positioning to drive IMC. Part Four focuses on understanding the IMC tactics available to marketers including advertising, social media and digital marketing, events and public relations. Part five concludes with the deeper study of an iconic brand. This course may use third-party course material that is not available for individual purchase from the publisher.   If so, the third-party course material will be secured and provided by the Tepper School to students enrolled in the course, and students enrolled in the course will be required to pay to the University the associated additional course materials fee for the third-party course material provided.   The amount of the course materials fee is dependent on the University's cost of the particular materials provided, and typically ranges from $13 to $75.
</end course description for 70-483 Advertising and Marketing Communications>
