<start course metadata for 48-315 Environment I: Climate & Energy in Architecture>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Environment I: Climate & Energy in Architecture
Course Number: 48-315
Department: Architecture
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Suzy Li, Vivian Loftness
Rooms: MM 103
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 48-315 Environment I: Climate & Energy in Architecture>

<start course description for 48-315 Environment I: Climate & Energy in Architecture>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Our commitment to designing net zero energy and indeed carbon positive buildings and communities is critical to environment equity and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The U.S. uses more energy per capita than every other industrialized nation without even a guarantee of a shared quality of life. Energy bills can be as much as 25% of all disposable income for low-income households and seniors living solely on social security, and having the power, water or heating shut off is devastating.  This course introduces architectural design responses for energy conservation and natural conditioning, human comfort, and the site-specific dynamics of climate.  Students will be expected to combine an understanding of the basic laws of comfort and heat flow with the variables of local climate to create energy design guidelines for their own work.  The state of the art in building energy conservation and passive heating and cooling technologies will be presented in lectures and supported by readings and assignments.   To stress the significance of architectural design decision-making on energy consumption and comfort, full design specifications and calculations will be completed for a residential-scale building.  Students will compile a professional energy consultant's report, designing the most viable energy conservation retrofit measures for their client from siting, massing, organization, enclosure detailing, opening control, to passive system integration and management. An overview of world energy consumption in buildings and energy design standards will be illustrated by lectures on building energy conservation successes, and emerging demands for a broader definition of sustainability.  The course will end with a focus on the design integration of natural conditioning systems and the potentially dynamic interface of mechanical systems in small- and large-scale buildings.
</end course description for 48-315 Environment I: Climate & Energy in Architecture>
