<start course metadata for 98-156 Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop
Course Number: 98-156
Department: StuCo (Student Led Courses)
Number of Units: 3
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Divyasri Krishnan, Shenai Chan
Rooms: PH 125D
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 98-156 Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>

<start course description for 98-156 Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: The world of contemporary poetry is a vast and scintillating space. Where many collegiate poetry courses focus on historical poetics, this course aims to introduce students to the newest, most exciting poetry that shapes our current cultural landscapes.   The democratic, accessible nature of short written work makes it a universal vehicle for expressing a broad spectrum of experiences and touching on myriad identities. The course will have a particular focus on marginalized poets, as well as intersectionality, by drawing on works from a diversity of ethnicities, classes, sexualities, genders, nationalities, and so on. Thus, students will learn how to engage with the creative work of many and varied people and pay respect to their stories, a vital skill in all walks of life.   Through weekly readings (3-4 poems, articles, podcasts, or videos per week), students will gain increased fluency in interpretation of contemporary poetry. They will learn to analyze works and then incorporate observed techniques into their own poems. They will write a poem each week, ultimately developing a cohesive body of creative work.   As this is a discussion-based course, participation is central and mandatory. No formal prerequisites or prior knowledge necessary; all that is needed is a desire to learn about emerging poets and techniques, as well as an eagerness to develop and improve upon one's poetry practice.
</end course description for 98-156 Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>
