<start course metadata for 69-129 Rape Agression Defense Systems>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Rape Agression Defense Systems
Course Number: 69-129
Department: Physical Education
Number of Units: 3
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Joseph Bernarding
Rooms: CUC ACTVY
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 69-129 Rape Agression Defense Systems>

<start course description for 69-129 Rape Agression Defense Systems>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Self Defense for Women - is a course specifically designed to increase women's awareness of potential sexual assault and to provide physical techniques to respond to such an act.  It is intended for women only because it is believed that the presence of males in class (other than instructors or other authorized persons) can alter the emotional and physical responses of women to class material and thereby hinder their ability to reach course objectives.  It is of the utmost importance that women be able to maximize their opportunity to learn in the company of like-minded students.  The core of the course is based upon the principles of the Rape Aggression Defense System (R.A.D.)which was conceived and developed by Larry N. Nadeau.  His goal in developing R.A.D. is also its motto:  "To develop and enhance the options of self-defense, so they may become viable considerations to the woman who is attacked."  This course is composed of three sections:  risk reduction principles, physical defense techniques, and simulation.  Risk reduction principles include a thorough review of personal self-awareness & the environment, whether in the home, neighborhood, or unfamiliar community.  Physical defense techniques include the introduction to bodily strikes with hands, kicks with the feet, and defenses against grabs & holds.  Simulation is the activity that attempts to incorporate, via physical demonstration, all emotional & physical techniques that have been taught through the acting out of scenarios involving instructors (padded/protected) as attackers, and students (padded/protected) responding to the assault.
</end course description for 69-129 Rape Agression Defense Systems>
