<start course metadata for 95-702 Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management
Course Number: 95-702
Department: Information Systems:Sch of IS & Mgt
Number of Units: 12
Prerequisites: (95-712) or (17-681 and 17-683)
Instructors: Martin Barrett, Michael Mccarthy
Rooms: HBH A301
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 95-702 Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management>

<start course description for 95-702 Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: With the emergence of the Internet as a computing platform, distributed applications are being widely deployed by organizations. Understanding the principles/theory and the technologies underlying distributed computing and systems design is increasingly important. Examples of technologies supporting such deployment include JEE architecture and Web services. This course has three major objectives. First, it is designed to introduce students to the principles underlying distributed computing and the design of distributed systems. Second, it aims to provide students with the opportunity to exercise these principles in the context of real applications by having the students use technologies such as XML, SOAP, Web services, and JEE-based application servers. Finally, it seeks to endow students with the capacity to analyze, design, evaluate and recommend distributed computing solutions skills in response to business problems. Distributed Computing Principles -    Distributed computing architectures: P2P, client server -    Inter-process communication -    Distributed objects and remote invocation -    Naming and Name services -    Time and Global State Management -    Transactions and Concurrency control -    Distributed Transactions Material on principles of distributed systemsare taught from books such as Tannenbaum and Steen or the Coulouris et al. book on Distributed Systems. Internet-enabled Distributed Computing Technologies -    Application Server architectures: JEE -    Extensions of the Java Distributed Object model and the DCOM component-based architectures -    Web Services: WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, XML -    http-based RPC combined with standards for interface definition and naming. -    Discussion and application of select API's from the API layer of the JEE architecture to illustrate distributed transactions, middleware access protocols (MQ Series API), and Messaging services (JMS).
</end course description for 95-702 Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management>
