<start course metadata for 53-451 Research Issues in Game Development:  Designing for XR>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Research Issues in Game Development:  Designing for XR
Course Number: 53-451
Department: Entertainment Technology
Number of Units: 12
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Thomas Corbett
Rooms: HL 106B
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 53-451 Research Issues in Game Development:  Designing for XR>

<start course description for 53-451 Research Issues in Game Development:  Designing for XR>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Extended Reality (or XR) describes the virtual environments generated by the related technologies of Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, and Mixed Reality.  Each of these generate spatial experiences that hold varying levels of immersion that can enhance or replace our perception of the real world, and each bring their own advantages and limitations.  With consumer-grade XR devices readily available, video game companies are creating content but are faced with the challenge of designing for mediums within which very few standards exist. The class will seek to better understand these technologies, examining the features that differentiate these platforms as well as their capabilities and limitations, and exploring the methods and techniques that trick our brains into believing these environments to be "real".    Students will play games and explore apps released for these platforms, dissecting them to discover best practices for designing content for users.  Students will apply these learnings by creating brand new XR content.  Course work will be performed in collaborative, cross-disciplinary teams as students form their own game studios to tackle design challenges and create games of their very own. These teams will engage in hands-on development, and will have roles for artists, programmers, designers, producers and more. Students from all disciplines are encouraged to join.  [Graduate students should sign up for 53-451 / Undergraduate students should sign up for 53-451]  NOTE:  Access to some types of equipment may be limited due to health and safety protocols.
</end course description for 53-451 Research Issues in Game Development:  Designing for XR>
