<start course metadata for 90-894 Policy Topics I: Federal Budget Policy>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Policy Topics I: Federal Budget Policy
Course Number: 90-894
Department: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt
Number of Units: 6
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Karl Maschino
Rooms: 
Locations: Washington, District of Columbia
</end course metadata for 90-894 Policy Topics I: Federal Budget Policy>

<start course description for 90-894 Policy Topics I: Federal Budget Policy>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Remember that scene in "The Matrix" where Neo finally understands his power?  He is standing in a hallway confronted by three agents.  Instead of seeing the walls of the hallway, and the agents as people, he sees the underlying code running through the walls and the agents. His understanding of the matrix enables him to then manipulate the code to become powerful .In this scene he stops seeing the software constructed world around him and instead sees the code running in the background that creates his reality.  That is the goal of this course.  To empower you to understand the code that runs the federal government, only in this case we are talking about money, not programming languages. When this course is completed, you will understand and look at the government in a fundamentally different way.  You will look at buildings, the people, the programs and see dollar signs running through them. This will enable you to manipulate the code.  In other words, by understanding the budget process, you be able to build better programs, manage projects, work with your organization to find resources. In order to bring you to that point, we will learn about how the budget process works, and how an organization obtains and spends money.  Furthermore, you will understand how the money was secured and how it is being spent. The goal is for you to look at government differently, and to start seeing the money, not the façade.
</end course description for 90-894 Policy Topics I: Federal Budget Policy>
