<start course metadata for 82-345 Corporeal Control>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Corporeal Control
Course Number: 82-345
Department: Modern Languages
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: 82-342 and 82-343
Instructors: Candace Skibba
Rooms: PH A19C
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 82-345 Corporeal Control>

<start course description for 82-345 Corporeal Control>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: This required course is transatlantic, incorporating the study of the cultures of Latinos in the US, Latin American and Spain. Topics vary from semester to semester, aiming to provide a thorough understanding of Latin American, Spanish and U.S. cultures in connection to issues such as race, gender, socio-economic class.  FALL 2023: This course explores the politics of gender, identity, sexuality, and health within a transatlantic geographical context. The texts will focus on the 20th and 21st centuries while presenting interdisciplinary perspectives. We will draw on examples from historical debates and documents as well as creative output - all to work toward a synthetic understanding of the following key issues: sexual and reproductive health and rights; sexual autonomy and choice; prostitution; sterilization; eugenics; the right to bear children; abortion; and motherhood. While remaining broad in its scope of the Spanish-speaking world, depth of analysis will be emphasized. We will collectively work together to understand each text, understanding that the methods in which we work to understand feminicide in 21st century Mexico may not be appropriate when analyzing the torture of women during the Spanish Civil War. Therefore, it is understood that no one student, nor professor, will have absolute knowledge of the political, cultural, and historical background of every part of the Spanish-speaking world included in the brief semester of study. The class will be student-centered, and thus highly interactive.  It is also a goal of this course to stimulate analytical thinking, and to promote the close readings of texts directed by argumentation and well-structured insights. Students will work collaboratively, with the goal of arriving at their own conclusions about the relationship between representation and reality, experience, and analysis.
</end course description for 82-345 Corporeal Control>
