<start course metadata for 82-139 Learning through Cultural Practices and Community>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Learning through Cultural Practices and Community
Course Number: 82-139
Department: Modern Languages
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Sue-Mei Wu
Rooms: POS 147; WEH 4623
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 82-139 Learning through Cultural Practices and Community>

<start course description for 82-139 Learning through Cultural Practices and Community>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: F23: What are the meanings behind the lyrics, poses, and moves in Chinese local operas, Chinese classical dances, martial arts and pop songs? How are they connected to Chinese social, religious and cultural beliefs? Do you want to try the moves and poses of opera performers and Chinese dancers? Do you want to manipulate Chinese puppets like a puppet master? Do you want to learn Taichi, Chinese martial arts, games and fitness dance to improve your mental and physical health? Are you interested in tasting some Chinese food, doing some Chinese cooking and learning about Chinese food culture, table manners and etiquette? Would you like to learn Chinese knots, calligraphy and other Chinese crafts? Do you want to apply your learning to community engagements to share your learning and have a positive impact? 82-139: Chinese Learning Through Cultural Practices and Community Engagement is where you can immerse yourself in these cultural learning activities through discussions, group collaborations, and hands-on practice. This course aims to help students understand Chinese society and culture through instruction as well as experiential learning. The course is structured to have three major components: (1) group learning and discussion (2) immersive hands-on experiences (3) collaborative activities, projects and community engagements. Class activities will include showcases of media, digital and printed materials, lectures and discussion, guest speakers, hands-on practice, students' oral reports, and presentation of final term projects showcased in community engagements. The class is in English
</end course description for 82-139 Learning through Cultural Practices and Community>
