<start course metadata for 15-862 Computational Photography>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Computational Photography
Course Number: 15-862
Department: Computer Science
Number of Units: 12
Prerequisites: 16-720 or 18-793 or 15-462 or 16-385
Instructors: Ioannis Gkioulekas
Rooms: GHC 4303
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 15-862 Computational Photography>

<start course description for 15-862 Computational Photography>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Computational photography is the convergence of computer graphics, computer vision and imaging. Its role is to overcome the limitations of the traditional camera, by combining imaging and computation to enable new and enhanced ways of capturing, representing, and interacting with the physical world.  This advanced undergraduate course provides a comprehensive overview of the state of the art in computational photography. At the start of the course, we will study modern image processing pipelines, including those encountered on mobile phone and DSLR cameras, and advanced image and video editing algorithms. Then we will proceed to learn about the physical and computational aspects of tasks such as 3D scanning, coded photography, lightfield imaging, time-of-flight imaging, VR/AR displays, and computational light transport. Near the end of the course, we will discuss active research topics, such as creating cameras that capture video at the speed of light, cameras that look around walls, or cameras that can see through tissue.  The course has a strong hands-on component, in the form of seven homework assignments and a final project. In the homework assignments, students will have the opportunity to implement many of the techniques covered in the class, by both acquiring their own images of indoor and outdoor scenes and developing the computational tools needed to extract information from them. For their final projects, students will have the choice to use modern sensors provided by the instructors (lightfield cameras, time-of-flight cameras, depth sensors, structured light systems, etc.).  This course requires familarity with linear algebra, calculus, programming, and doing computations with images.  The course does not require prior experience with photography or imaging.
</end course description for 15-862 Computational Photography>
