<start course metadata for 90-763 Human Rights Conflicts & Development>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Human Rights Conflicts & Development
Course Number: 90-763
Department: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt
Number of Units: 6
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Silvia Borzutzky
Rooms: HBH 1007
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 90-763 Human Rights Conflicts & Development>

<start course description for 90-763 Human Rights Conflicts & Development>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: In the words of Paul Collier, "Seventy-three percent of people in the societies of the bottom billion have recently been in a civil war or are still in one" Collier's words effectively summarize  the purpose of this course. Thus, during the term will study why civil wars and the ensuing abuses happen largely in societies suffering from massive development problems. Conversely, we will also analyze the impact that human rights abuses and conflict have on development. We will then analyze different approaches to development and how to deal with past human rights abuses. In brief, we will study the connections between development and civil wars; the destructive societal and economic effects of conflict and human rights abuses, and the policies and actions geared to reverse those detrimental effects, including foreign intervention, foreign aid and Transitional Justice policies. At the end of the course, the students are expected to have learned about: - Civil wars: Their reasons, frequency, regional scope, cost and their negative impact on development. - The nature and impact of international intervention and role of international actors, including international organizations, development agencies, international social movements and international NGOs. - Specific development issues and approaches, including the neo-liberal, the dependency and the path followed by China, among others. - How to achieve justice in the aftermath of civil wars and dictatorships. This field of inquiry is known as Transitional Justice policies and includes the study of truth commissions, trials and reparations among others. - Application of the knowledge acquired in the class to specific conflicts.
</end course description for 90-763 Human Rights Conflicts & Development>
