<start course metadata for 54-381 Contemporary Comedy by Historically Underrepresented Groups>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Contemporary Comedy by Historically Underrepresented Groups
Course Number: 54-381
Department: Drama
Number of Units: 6
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: B. Kleymeyer, Maggie Latham
Rooms: PH A19; PH A19A
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 54-381 Contemporary Comedy by Historically Underrepresented Groups>

<start course description for 54-381 Contemporary Comedy by Historically Underrepresented Groups>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: Every semester, members of the School of Drama's faculty offer seminars on special topics that investigate some aspect of theatre history, dramatic literature, dramatic theory, or a particular author, period, or genre.  ___ Section A-Contemporary Comedy by Historically Underrepresented Groups: In this course, students will read and analyze comedic plays of the late 20th and 21st centuries, focusing on plays by women and members of the LGBTQIA+ community through discussions, responses, and in-class activities. Together, we will examine the genre of comedic playwriting through the lenses of race, sexuality, gender, and the intersections between them. Students will investigate the narrative form of  comedy as well as its relevance to theatre and contemporary issues. Playwrights we will study may include: MJ Kaufman, Lynn Nottage, Sarah Ruhl, SMJ, Young Jean Lee, Danai Gurira, Yasmina Reza, and more.  ___ Section B-This course will examine non-Aristotelian approaches to performance work from the last century. Together we will look at the work of artists whose work has pushed the boundaries of our theatrical expectations. Starting with the work of Bertolt Brecht and the epic theatre we will work our way towards the present moment.  We will look at how the work of early 20th century theatre artists have influenced work under the umbrella term "Contemporary Performance". This course will highlight how non-Aristotelian theatrical structures, for the last century, have been used by artists from underrepresented communities and the global majority to tell their stories. Artists studied in this course may include, but are not limited to; Brecht, Lorca, the Living Theatre, Liz Lecompte, Amiri Baraka, Fake Friends, Young Jean Lee, Ntozake Shange, Taylor Mac, Sarah Kane, Chuck Mee, Suzan Lori-Parks, Celine Song, 600 Highwaymen, Elevator Repair Service.
</end course description for 54-381 Contemporary Comedy by Historically Underrepresented Groups>
