<start course metadata for 70-246 Innovation & Entrepreneurial Mindset>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Innovation & Entrepreneurial Mindset
Course Number: 70-246
Department: Business Administration
Number of Units: 6
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Jim Jen
Rooms: TEP 2701
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 70-246 Innovation & Entrepreneurial Mindset>

<start course description for 70-246 Innovation & Entrepreneurial Mindset>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: This course is designed to introduce students to the theory and frameworks used to develop and implement innovative solutions to societal and entrepreneurial problems.  The curriculum incorporates the latest on innovative behavioral traits and frameworks with a highly experiential format to expose undergraduate students to out of the box thinking.  For example, the instructor would use the lecture section of the class to explain the behavioral techniques that lead to innovative solutions (based on the Innovator's DNA by Clayton Christensen).  Teams of 3-6 students each would then examine a problem and be asked to generate 3 potential solutions and a proposed solution, using the techniques presented. Volunteers from the local Carnegie Mellon and entrepreneurial community will serve as mentors and judges, thereby providing a real world learning and networking experience.  Ultimately, the best solution will be selected, using a shark tank format.  While the selection of a winning solution will be fun for the class, the students will be graded on their having demonstrated the theory & techniques presented in class.  Each week will address a new and important topic related to the innovative & entrepreneurial mindset.  Weekly format will include one day of lecture and one day of application of the theory introduced in a fun and competitive format. This course may use third-party course material that is not available for individual purchase from the publisher.   If so, the third-party course material will be secured and provided by the Tepper School to students enrolled in the course, and students enrolled in the course will be required to pay to the University the associated additional course materials fee for the third-party course material provided.   The amount of the course materials fee is dependent on the University's cost of the particular materials provided, and typically ranges from $13 to $75.
</end course description for 70-246 Innovation & Entrepreneurial Mindset>
