<start course metadata for 90-860 Policy in a Global Economy>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Policy in a Global Economy
Course Number: 90-860
Department: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt
Number of Units: 12
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Lee Branstetter
Rooms: HBH 1006
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 90-860 Policy in a Global Economy>

<start course description for 90-860 Policy in a Global Economy>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: From the dawn of the New Deal through the presidency of Barack Obama, the U.S. led the development of an open, global system of relatively free trade and global capital flows.  In the current political environment, leaders on both the American political left (like Senator Bernie Sanders) and the political right (like Donald Trump), have called into question this bipartisan consensus in favor of freer trade and investment.  That turn away from globalization has been accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Was the earlier pro-globalization consensus wrong?  Is globalization good or bad for the U.S. economy?  What are the impacts of globalization on the rest of the world?   How has economic globalization impacted the environment and income inequality in the U.S. and around the world?  How should the Biden Administration seek to manage international economic policy?  This course provides future policy makers and managers with the knowledge and analytical tools necessary to understand economic globalization and its effects. These issues will be studied using the analytical tools and concepts of international economics.  Guest lectures and case studies will provide a range of perspectives on current policy debates. The course will also examine science-based policies that could maximize the benefits and minimize the disruption generated by globalization. The fall 2021 version of the course will examine the global macroeconomic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ways in which international policy coordination -- or lack thereof -- worsened that impact.  For more information, please visit the Heinz College course catalog:  https://api.heinz.cmu.edu/courses_api/course_detail/90-860
</end course description for 90-860 Policy in a Global Economy>
