<start course metadata for 99-784 Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Health>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Name: Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Health
Course Number: 99-784
Department: Carnegie Mellon University-Wide Studies
Number of Units: 3
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Korryn Mozisek
Rooms: CMU REMOTE; DNM DNM
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 99-784 Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Health>

<start course description for 99-784 Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Health>
Semester: Fall 2023 (aka F23)
Course Description: As humans rely more and more on electronic devices to support their everyday activities, there are ever present warnings about the impacts such reliance has on human autonomy ranging from who owns and controls information networks, the inequitable impact of technology consumption on peoples and places, varying accessibility of technology around the globe, and the promises and limitations of technology in improving human health. By engaging in technology as a lens, this sequence of weekend micro-courses encourages students to examine technology as a system disproportionately impacting humanity by enabling and constraining human rights of groups of people around the globe. With a multi-disciplinary focus, the course invites researchers and practitioners from the University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon, and relevant fields more broadly.  In Fall 2023, the focus will be on the impact technology has on human health. This will include a discussion about technologys impact on human interactions, including mental health amid a pandemic and changing working conditions. It will also include a focus on the accessibility and disparities on health cares increased reliance on technology across the globe as well as the transition to digitizing health records and the dangers this creates in relation to privacy. Added Note: The course will occur on Friday, Oct. 27th, Saturday, Oct. 28th, and Sunday, Oct. 29th. Engagement in the course should be synchronous; accommodations for those in significant time zone differences will be provided to allow enrollment and completion of all elements of the weekend. If a student is interested in the course but unable to engage in the course dates, please reach out to Korryn Mozisek (kmozisek@andrew.cmu.edu).
</end course description for 99-784 Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Health>
