<start course metadata for 94-837 Leading with Equity & Inclusion>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Leading with Equity & Inclusion
Course Number: 94-837
Department: Heinz College Wide Courses
Number of Units: 6
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Grace Stewart
Rooms: HBH 2003
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 94-837 Leading with Equity & Inclusion>

<start course description for 94-837 Leading with Equity & Inclusion>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: This class is a Hybrid with two in-person required classes and 4 virtual synchronous classes held on Zoom. On Jan 22, 2024 the class will be in-person. Jan 29 -  Feb 12, 2024 the class will be on Zoom. Feb 19, 2024 the class will be in-person. The final class on Feb 26, 2024 will be virtual.   Many talented and otherwise successful leaders lack the skills, competencies, and experience to practically embed their deeply held values of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) into their management practice. DEI work requires a different approach and process than most other ways we learn to work, manage, and lead. Oppression manifests at four levels: personal, interpersonal, organizational, and structural or systemic. To create a more equitable society, leaders must be prepared to address oppression at all four of these levels, often simultaneously. Part 1 of Leading with Equity & Inclusion will focus on the first two levels, personal and interpersonal, as you develop your inclusive management vision. Beginning with foundational knowledge of the evolution and current trends of DEI in organizations, you will examine how your identity, experiences, and culture shape your management style and work preferences, and how you show up at work and in your interactions and relationships with others. You will engage in critical discussions around topics of power and privilege, white dominant culture traits, intercultural competency, microaggressions, and unconscious bias. You will develop your personal inclusive management vision based on deep self-reflection and analysis of your personal and professional values.
</end course description for 94-837 Leading with Equity & Inclusion>
