<start course metadata for 54-272 Scenic Fabrication and Installation>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Scenic Fabrication and Installation
Course Number: 54-272
Department: Drama
Number of Units: 3
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: David Boevers
Rooms: PCA 209
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 54-272 Scenic Fabrication and Installation>

<start course description for 54-272 Scenic Fabrication and Installation>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: The Scenic Fabrication & Installation course consolidates and builds upon material presented in the first semester of Basic PTM and in the three semesters of Stagecraft class.  Whether they intend to pursue careers as technicians, engineers, or managers students much understand how scenery is built and what is involved in the assembly of the scenery in the theatre.  Throughout the semester students will explore the materials and equipment used by all kinds of professionals in the fabrication industry.  Through this exploration students will become conversant with the kinds of properties, and the advantages and disadvantages of many different items.  Along with this exploration is a concurrent investigation of entertainment industry accidents.  This material is valuable in how it contextualizes the kind of work students will be involved in, and helps to drive home the very real consequences of errors pertaining to scenery.  In the classroom and in lab students in this course will develop their knowledge and processes for building scenery.  The course has three basic units.  The beginning of the semester focuses on building materials and on tool use.  Through the center of the semester course material focuses on traditional scenery practices.  The end of the semester material addresses rigging systems and scenery rigging practices.  Laboratory assignments tied to this course will consist of carpentry assignments in the shop and carpentry and rigging assignments during load in.  Occasionally students pursuing a more customized path may have lab assignments in the paint department in the shop and in the electrics department during install.  All students may receive apprentice assignments in the scenery office.
</end course description for 54-272 Scenic Fabrication and Installation>
