<start course metadata for 76-818 Rhetoric and the Body>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Rhetoric and the Body
Course Number: 76-818
Department: English
Number of Units: N/A
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Stephanie Larson
Rooms: PH A19C
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 76-818 Rhetoric and the Body>

<start course description for 76-818 Rhetoric and the Body>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: This course offers an introduction to rhetorical studies of the body and is centered on the following three questions: What is the role of the body in rhetorical theory? What role does rhetoric play in constructing the body as a raced, gendered, dis/abled, cultural, fleshy, and political entity? And, how might moving, feeling bodies challenge, regulate, or disrupt these rhetorical constructions and furthermore, our theories of rhetoric? Our readings will explore the role of embodiment in rhetorical theory, examining a number of contemporary and historical theories of the body. In the process, we will explore how to put rhetoric and the body into conversation with one another and what methodological implications this conversation has for rhetorical studies more broadly. The goal of this course is to provide breadth rather than depth, with the assumption that most students, even those relatively familiar with body and/or rhetorical theory, will approach rhetorical studies of the body as novices. Students will conduct their own research on a topic related to rhetorical studies of the body that also aligns with their professional and academic goals. Graduate students interested in research will benefit from this course's focus on theory and the professional genres central to rhetorical studies. Undergraduates students (both majors and non-majors) will have the opportunity to examine how the body intersects with communication and writing contexts in their everyday public and professional lives. Please note: Freshmen are prohibited from registering for this course. Sophomores must obtain instructor permission.
</end course description for 76-818 Rhetoric and the Body>
