<start course metadata for 70-447 Client Consulting Project: Strategic Management of the Enterprise>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Client Consulting Project: Strategic Management of the Enterprise
Course Number: 70-447
Department: Business Administration
Number of Units: 12
Prerequisites: 70-381 and 70-371 and 70-391 and 70-311 and 70-122
Instructors: Muhammad Farooqi
Rooms: DNM DNM
Locations: Doha, Qatar
</end course metadata for 70-447 Client Consulting Project: Strategic Management of the Enterprise>

<start course description for 70-447 Client Consulting Project: Strategic Management of the Enterprise>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: This is a project course for senior business majors offered in partnership with real-world client companies; students must apply for the course and enrollment is by special permission. Students will learn about the challenges of the multi-dimensional and complex issues faced by managers, including learning the concepts and skills to handle ambiguity, perform a persuasive data analysis, and communicate the findings effectively. Students will develop a deeper understanding of how organizations can co-ordinate and leverage synergies across a range of disciplines by effective deployment of technologies and organizational structures and processes. Teams will have an opportunity to work with clients on a wide mix of problems spanning multiple functions, including strategy, operations, technology and marketing. Specifically, teams will address issues such as big data, mobile application strategies, supply chain, digital media, complexity management, health care delivery models and healthcare marketing strategy. Regular meetings with the instructor will be scheduled to guide teams during client engagement and co-ordinate with the executives at their client company. The deliverables will be in the form of a report/prototype and a final presentation to the client's executive team. No classes to attend, but weekly team meetings with times to be determined. This course may use third-party course material that is not available for individual purchase from the publisher. If so, the third-party course material will be secured and provided by the Tepper School to students enrolled in the course, and students enrolled in the course will be required to pay to the University the associated additional course materials fee for the third-party course material provided. The amount of the course materials fee is dependent on the University's cost of the particular materials provided, and typically ranges from $13 to $75.
</end course description for 70-447 Client Consulting Project: Strategic Management of the Enterprise>
