<start course metadata for 76-221 Heroes and Monsters>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Heroes and Monsters
Course Number: 76-221
Department: English
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Elizabeth Dieterich
Rooms: WEH 6423
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 76-221 Heroes and Monsters>

<start course description for 76-221 Heroes and Monsters>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: Topics vary by semester: Spring 2024: Heroes and Monsters: Tales of mighty heroes vanquishing monstrous foes have crowded literary canons for centuries. Even today, books, podcasts, televisions, theatres, and streaming platforms are brimming over with triumphs over forces of evil. But why does our culture valorize certain characters who get to be heroes, lovers, or compelling antiheroes, but fully demonize others? What qualities make one character a monster and another a hero? Are heroism and monstrosity universal characteristics or are they culturally constructed? Do the heroic and the monstrous exist as fixed points or as ends of a spectrum¿or do they co-exist as shades within each other? How do genre or familiarity set our readerly expectations for narrative and character? In this class we will read a wide range of texts in order to grapple with these questions about heroes, heroines, antiheroes, and monsters in our culture. Readings will be drawn from Classical Antiquity through the Middle Ages and into the present day. We will explore how genres as wide-ranging as Ancient Greek and Anglo-Saxon epics, medieval Arthurian legends, Shakespearean drama, modern novels, and contemporary multi-media adaptations maintain but also complicate notions of the heroic and the monstrous. We will read excerpts from epics such as The Odyssey, Beowulf, and Paradise Lost, but also dive deep into the full texts of works including Shakespeare's 'The Tempest,' Mary Shelley's 'Frankenstein,' and Charlotte Bronte's 'Jane Eyre' in order to read them alongside modern reimaginings such as Aime Cesaire's 'Une Têmpete,' Jean Rhys' 'Wide Sargasso Sea,' and the contemporary gothic novel. In addition to appreciating how such texts construct historical and contemporary heroism and monstrosity, we will also push back against these categories, reading familiar stories with fresh, critical eyes.
</end course description for 76-221 Heroes and Monsters>
