<start course metadata for 98-156 Student Taught Course: Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Student Taught Course: Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop
Course Number: 98-156
Department: StuCo (Student Led Courses)
Number of Units: 3
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Divyasri Krishnan, Shenai Chan
Rooms: DH 1117
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 98-156 Student Taught Course: Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>

<start course description for 98-156 Student Taught Course: Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: The world of contemporary poetry is a vast and scintillating space. Where many collegiate poetry courses focus on historical poetics, this course aims to introduce students to the newest, most exciting poetry that shapes our current cultural landscapes. The democratically accessible nature of short written work makes it a universal vehicle for expressing a broad spectrum of experiences, touching on myriad identities.  The course will have a particular focus on marginalized poets, as well as intersectionality, by drawing on works from diverse ethnicities, classes, sexualities, genders, nationalities, and so on. Thus, students will learn how to engage with the creative work of many varied people and pay respect to their stories, a vital skill in all walks of life.  Through weekly readings (3-4 poems, articles), podcasts or videos, students will gain increased fluency in interpretation of contemporary poetry. Learn to analyze works and incorporate observed techniques into personal poems. Write a poem each week, ultimately developing a cohesive body of creative work. As this is a discussion-based course, participation is central and mandatory. No formal prerequisites or prior knowledge necessary; all that is needed is a desire to learn about emerging poets and techniques, as well as an eagerness to develop and improve upon one's poetry practice.
</end course description for 98-156 Student Taught Course: Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop>
