<start course metadata for 94-843 Research Studio: Arts Futures>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Research Studio: Arts Futures
Course Number: 94-843
Department: Heinz College Wide Courses
Number of Units: 6
Prerequisites: 94-702 or 94-701 or 90-717 or 93-717 or 91-717 or 95-717
Instructors: Brett Crawford
Rooms: HBH 1208
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 94-843 Research Studio: Arts Futures>

<start course description for 94-843 Research Studio: Arts Futures>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: Centering work at the intersections of arts, management and technology, this course is designed in a 'studio lab model' in which students gain an understanding of how to conduct professional - level research with a focus on how technology is shaping arts and entertainment enterprises across the globe.  Students simultaneously learn and experiment with how to share that knowledge using multi-modal, trans-media digital storytelling methods. Research findings are intended for publication on the Arts Management and Technology research platform, curated by a student-managed team to serve professionals working in the field.   This class is designed to provide a breadth of skills that will serve emerging professionals in the fields of research, communication, or institutional development. With a focus on digital modes of communication aka content creation, young professionals leave the course with effective skills to communicate ideas to peers, supervisors, or customers. Furthermore, current and future leaders need to understand how to evaluate or conduct research emerging opportunities in order to make effective decisions.   Adopting a studio model, students will spend time prior to class meetings gaining an understanding of theories and approaches to research and digital communication.  In class, students will work actively to synthesize the theories and put them into practice, from creating an evidenced based infographic to scripting and recording a podcast episode.   Each student will work on a semester long, independent, research project at the intersection of arts management and technology.  A list of potential, but not prescribed research topics  are provided at the beginning of the semester and all assignments scaffold from inception to final product.
</end course description for 94-843 Research Studio: Arts Futures>
