<start course metadata for 84-250 Writing for Political Science and Policy>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Writing for Political Science and Policy
Course Number: 84-250
Department: Institute for Politics and Strategy
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Haleigh Bartos
Rooms: BH 255A
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 84-250 Writing for Political Science and Policy>

<start course description for 84-250 Writing for Political Science and Policy>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: Writing and briefing are essential skills in the policy discipline. This course will equip students with the tools necessary to enter professional policy-related domains. We will use a workshop format that promotes classroom discussions, small group work and practical exercises simulating real world experiences. The workshop format is intended to emphasize communication, writing effectiveness and leadership, as well as to increase students' comfort levels with both receiving, applying, discussing and delivering constructive feedback and criticism. It is also intended to make this class fun and engaging, creating a safe and welcoming environment for students to reflect on their own work, and their colleagues'. During the course, students will write a policy memo, an op-ed, and a National Security Memo, (as well as some smaller additional writing assignments) as well as deliver multiple professional-style briefings for a variety of audiences. This is a writing intensive course, with a heavy emphasis on professional briefing and presenting. As such, students should expect to write and brief... a lot! This workshop-based model allows students to incorporate and give feedback in real time. The intent is that students will develop the skills necessary to enter future professional environments and hit the ground running. Students will work within small groups and with the professor to identify a topic Area of Interest (AOR) that will be the basis for most of their course work- allowing students to focus on an area in which they would like to develop subject matter expertise (SME), as well as one they find interesting and stimulating.
</end course description for 84-250 Writing for Political Science and Policy>
