<start course metadata for 54-770 Advanced Topics in Stage Management I: Communication>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Advanced Topics in Stage Management I: Communication
Course Number: 54-770
Department: Drama
Number of Units: 6
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Miso Wei
Rooms: HL 106C
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 54-770 Advanced Topics in Stage Management I: Communication>

<start course description for 54-770 Advanced Topics in Stage Management I: Communication>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: Communication is essential for our collaboration in work and daily life. It is a life-long lesson. This course will guide you through the arts and craft of communication including both in-person and communication through different forms of media. The first part of class will include active listening, effective expression, self-disclosure, and body language. A series of activities will be used to help the students understand how messages flow among people.  As we live in a digital world, people use many different platforms to communication. The instantaneous and far-reaching communication nature impacts our relationships and business. The second part of the class will talk about written communication in a professional setting. Meanwhile we will address communication which happens in feedback and conflicts.   Finally, as we are facing a global and diverse society, how do we work under a multilingual environment? The language differences don't just exist in between different countries. They are also everywhere among different groups and departments. For example, in theatre, technicians speak an entirely different language than performers. In a theatre company, you will find departments like finance, marketing, human resources have their distinctive vocabularies. Students will learn how to communicate with awareness and respects under these perspectives.
</end course description for 54-770 Advanced Topics in Stage Management I: Communication>
