<start course metadata for 60-356 Critical Studies: Once Upon A Time: A Survey of International Fairy Tale Film>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Critical Studies: Once Upon A Time: A Survey of International Fairy Tale Film
Course Number: 60-356
Department: Art
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Suzie Silver
Rooms: CFA 307
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 60-356 Critical Studies: Once Upon A Time: A Survey of International Fairy Tale Film>

<start course description for 60-356 Critical Studies: Once Upon A Time: A Survey of International Fairy Tale Film>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: Fairy tales have been a part of cinema from the very beginning. Since George Méliès' 1899 Cinderella, filmmakers from around the globe have continuously returned to the genre not only for escape into enchanted worlds, but also for social critique, with stories of injustices avenged, class oppression overthrown and gender roles expanded. This course decenters the conception of the genre fixed by Disney and Hollywood to examine fairy tale films from around the world. We will encounter a poetics and politics of wonder in international films about transformation, wish-fulfillment and reversals of fortune that deliver a situated counterpoint to the hegemony of a colonizing and commercialized poetics of magic.   The transformative power of fairy tales can be approached from a variety of perspectives. We will analyze how stories themselves function as shape-shifters, morphing into new versions of themselves as they are retold and as they migrate into other media. Beyond looking at the films as texts we will consider the affective qualities of how their formal and aesthetic aspects create wonder, delight, humor, anxiety and terror.  What are the stakes of the fairy tale's varied transformations today, for whom?   In this class we will watch and discuss films, stories and historical and critical texts.   Films screened and discussed include: Kwaidan (Japan, 1964), To Sleep With Anger (USA, 1990) El Laberinto del Fauno (Mexico-Spain, 2006), Green Snake (Hong Kong, 1993), Peau d'Âne (France, 1970), Tropical Malady (Thailand, 2004) Sampo (Finland/Soviet Union, 1958) and many more.   Assignments include: short written responses to the films and readings, study group activities, and one collaborative creative research project.
</end course description for 60-356 Critical Studies: Once Upon A Time: A Survey of International Fairy Tale Film>
