<start course metadata for 66-140 Equitable Access & Success in Higher Education: A Case Study of Carnegie Mellon>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Equitable Access & Success in Higher Education: A Case Study of Carnegie Mellon
Course Number: 66-140
Department: Dietrich College Interdisciplinary
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Katharine Walsh, Nuria Ballesteros Soria
Rooms: PH A18B
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 66-140 Equitable Access & Success in Higher Education: A Case Study of Carnegie Mellon>

<start course description for 66-140 Equitable Access & Success in Higher Education: A Case Study of Carnegie Mellon>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: With the Supreme Court poised to rule on affirmative action, the challenge of equitable access to higher education is back in the public spotlight. Carnegie Mellon, as a university that brings together students from a wide variety of backgrounds, serves as a case study for exploring the challenges and opportunities for achieving equitable access and success in higher education. The array of social identities (e.g., race, gender, national origin, etc.) represented on campus creates an environment where students can engage with a diversity of ideas and experiences. However, this same diversity can also present challenges when students are viewed as "equal" (i.e., all the same) rather than as unique individuals with a diverse set of needs and assets (i.e., equity). Using archival materials, students will explore the history of Carnegie Mellon University from its founding to present day, with attention to the composition of its student body, its approach(es) to equitable access (e.g., admission policies), and students' experiences at the university. Through historical and linguistic analyses, students will examine how language about social identities and equitable access changed over time and how those changes may have impacted student experiences and success at CMU. The historical and linguistic focus of this course will be enhanced via guest speakers involved with initiatives related to equitable access and success at CMU as well as via class materials from other disciplines (e.g., educational psychology). During class meetings and guest speaker sessions, students will be expected to engage with ideas and with each other through discussion. Outside of class, students will complete a variety of course assignments, including readings, written assignments, reflections, and a collaborative project.
</end course description for 66-140 Equitable Access & Success in Higher Education: A Case Study of Carnegie Mellon>
