<start course metadata for 79-225 West African History in Film>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: West African History in Film
Course Number: 79-225
Department: History
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Edda Fields-Black
Rooms: PH 226C
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 79-225 West African History in Film>

<start course description for 79-225 West African History in Film>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: West Africa is a vibrant, diverse, and rich region, which has had the largest influence demographically, culturally, socially, and linguistically on the Americas. This course will examine West Africa's history from the pre-colonial to the independence period. It will cover such topics as states vs. stateless societies, urbanization, trans-Saharan trade, Islamization, European interaction, the trans-Atlantic slave trade, colonialism, cash crops, missionaries, nationalism, and independence. Students will understand how this dynamic region changed over time as a result of internal factors, such as state formation, as well as external factors, interaction with Muslim and European traders. Students will also be exposed to the variety of sources used by historians to reconstruct West Africa's rich history. The course will use historical films by some of West Africa's most famous filmmakers, such as Ousman Sembene, to illustrate the diversity of the region and its historical change over time. Course includes two class meetings and mandatory film screenings on Wednesdays from 6:40-9:30pm.  This course fulfills Dietrich College's "Contextual Thinking" general education requirement.  Note to CFA Students:  If the film-showing portion of this class conflicts with a theatre/stage placement, please know that alternative screening times can be arranged on a case-by-case basis.  If you have any questions or concerns, please contact the instructor directly.
</end course description for 79-225 West African History in Film>
