<start course metadata for 82-139 Chinese Through Cultural Practices & Community>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Name: Chinese Through Cultural Practices & Community
Course Number: 82-139
Department: Modern Languages
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Sue-Mei Wu
Rooms: POS 147
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 82-139 Chinese Through Cultural Practices & Community>

<start course description for 82-139 Chinese Through Cultural Practices & Community>
Semester: Spring 2024 (aka S24)
Course Description: S23: What are the meanings behind the lyrics, poses, and moves in Chinese local operas, martial arts, and pop songs? How are they connected to Chinese social, religious and cultural beliefs? Do you want to try the moves and poses of opera performers? Do you want to manipulate Chinese puppets like a puppet master? Do you want to learn Taichi, Chinese martial arts and fitness dance to improve your mental and physical health? Would you like to make some Chinese knots and calligraphy and make some Chinese crafts? Do you want to practice singing in Chinese and learn about the role of Karaoke in Chinese society? Do you want to apply your learning to some community engagements to share your learning and have some impact? 82-139: Chinese Learning Through Cultural Practices and Community Engagement is where you can immerse yourself in these cultural learning activities through classroom discussions, group collaborations, and hands-on practice. This course aims to help students understand Chinese society and culture through classroom instruction as well as experiential learning. The course is structured to have three major components: (1) classroom learning and discussion (2) immersive hands-on experiences (3) collaborative activities, projects and community engagements. Class activities will include showcases of media, digital and printed materials, lectures and discussion, guest speakers, hands-on practice, field trips, students' oral reports, and presentation of final term projects showcased in community engagements.
</end course description for 82-139 Chinese Through Cultural Practices & Community>
