<start course metadata for 76-101 Politics & Ideology in the Marvel Cinematic Universe>
Semester: Summer One/All 2024 (aka M24, M24 Mini 1 or M24 Full, Summer 2024 Mini 1)
Course Name: Politics & Ideology in the Marvel Cinematic Universe
Course Number: 76-101
Department: English
Number of Units: 9
Prerequisites: None
Instructors: Chad Szalkowski-Ference, Rebecca Wigginton
Rooms: CMU REMOTE
Locations: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
</end course metadata for 76-101 Politics & Ideology in the Marvel Cinematic Universe>

<start course description for 76-101 Politics & Ideology in the Marvel Cinematic Universe>
Semester: Summer One/All 2024 (aka M24, M24 Mini 1 or M24 Full, Summer 2024 Mini 1)
Course Description: 76-101 introduces first-year students to an advanced, inductive process for writing an argument from sources. Because the course is based upon empirical research about professional academic writers, students will learn expert practices for authoring their own arguments that contribute to an existing community of authors. Because reading and writing are inseparable practices for academic writing, students will read a variety of texts so that they can explore and critically evaluate a single issue from multiple perspectives and from different disciplinary genres. Students will learn methods for summarizing, synthesizing, and analyzing arguments within that issue so that they may contribute an argument of their own.  The course is also geared toward helping students understand the requirements of advanced college-level writing. Our students are typically very accomplished readers and writers, and we are eager to push their accomplishments toward greater excellence. For this purpose, students will build upon their composing knowledge by reflecting and thinking strategically as they plan, write, and revise their own texts. Ultimately, they will develop critical reading, rhetorical and linguistic practices for analyzing and producing texts within the context of an academic community.  Each section of 76-101 is structured by the same objectives and core assignments. There is a core vocabulary and set of heuristics that all sections teach. However, students may find particular issues more appealing than others-we encourage students to pursue their interests, but we also ask that students engage any 76-101 course with intellectual curiosity. Due to the limits of our schedule, we are unable to meet each student's individual preferences for course topics, but we do offer a wide variety from which to choose. Section descriptions are posted at: http://www.cmu.edu/hss/english/first_year/index.html
</end course description for 76-101 Politics & Ideology in the Marvel Cinematic Universe>
