publication venue: IEEE Access
title: Exploring Stigmergic Collaboration and Task Modularity Through an Expert Crowdsourcing Annotation System: The Case of Storm Phenomena in the Euro-Atlantic Region
authors: Dennis Paulino, António Correia, M. Yagui, João Barroso, Margarida L. R. Liberato, A. Vivacqua, Andrea Grover, Jeffrey P. Bigham, Hugo Paredes
year: 2023
tldr: The intrinsic coordination among experts engaged in crowdsourcing tasks focused on the semantic annotation of extreme weather events is investigated, bringing insights about the behavior of expert crowds by considering the cognitive biases and highlighting the impact of existing annotations on the quality of data gathered from the crowd and the collective knowledge generated.
abstract: Extreme weather events, such as windstorms, hurricanes, and heat waves, exert a significant impact on global natural catastrophes and pose substantial challenges for weather forecasting systems. To enhance the accuracy and preparedness for extreme weather events, this study explores the potential of using expert crowdsourcing in storm forecasting research through the application of stigmergic collaboration. We present the development and implementation of an expert Crowdsourcing for Semantic Annotation of Atmospheric Phenomena (eCSAAP) system, designed to leverage the collective knowledge and experience of meteorological experts. Through a participatory co-creation process, we iteratively developed a web-based annotation tool capable of capturing multi-faceted insights from weather data and generating visualizations for expert crowdsourcing campaigns. In this context, this article investigates the intrinsic coordination among experts engaged in crowdsourcing tasks focused on the semantic annotation of extreme weather events. The study brings insights about the behavior of expert crowds by considering the cognitive biases and highlighting the impact of existing annotations on the quality of data gathered from the crowd and the collective knowledge generated. The insights regarding the crowdsourcing dynamics, particularly stigmergy, offer a promising starting point for utilizing stigmergic collaboration as an effective coordination mechanism for weather experts in crowdsourcing platforms but also in other domains requiring expertise-driven collective intelligence.
