publication venue: medRxiv
title: Evaluation of FluSight influenza forecasting in the 2021–22 and 2022–23 seasons with a new target laboratory-confirmed influenza hospitalizations
authors: Sarabeth M. Mathis, Alexander E. Webber, Tomás M León, Erin L. Murray, Monica Sun, L. A. White, L. Brooks, Alden Green, Addison J. Hu, Daniel J McDonald, Roni Rosenfeld, Dmitry Shemetov, R. Tibshirani, S. Kandula, Sen Pei, Jeffrey Shaman, R. Yaari, T. Yamana, Pulak Agarwal, Srikar Balusu, Gautham Gururajan, Harshavardhan Kamarthi, B. A. Prakash, Rishi Raman, Alexander Rodríguez, Zhiyuan Zhao, Akilan Meiyappan, Shalina Omar, P. Baccam, H. Gurung, S. Stage, B. Suchoski, M. Ajelli, A. G. Kummer, M. Litvinova, Paulo C. Ventura, Spencer Wadsworth, Jarad Niemi, Erica Carcelen, Alison Hill, Sung-Mok Jung, J. Lemaitre, J. Lessler, Sara L. Loo, Clif McKee, Koji Sato, Clair Smith, S. Truelove, Thomas McAndrew, Wenxuan Ye, Nikos Bosse, W. Hlavacek, Yen Ting Lin, A. Mallela, Ye Chen, Shelby Lamm, Jaechoul Lee, Richard G Posner, A. Perofsky, Cécile Viboud, Leonardo Clemente, Fred Lu, Austin G Meyer, Mauricio Santillana, Matteo Chinazzi, Jessica T. Davis, K. Mu, A. Pastore y Piontti, A. Vespignani, X. Xiong, M. Ben-Nun, P. Riley, J. Turtle, Chis Hulme-Lowe, Shakeel Jessa, V. Nagraj, Stephen D. Turner, Desiree Williams, Avranil Basu, John M Drake, S. Fox, G. Gibson, Ehsan Suez, E. Thommes, Monica G. Cojocaru, E. Cramer, Aaron Gerding, A. Stark, E. Ray, Nick Reich, Li Shandross, N. Wattanachit, Yijin Wang, Martha W Zorn, Majd Al Aawar, A. Srivastava, L. A. Meyers, A. Adiga, Benjamin Hurt, Gursharn Kaur, Bryan L Lewis, M. Marathe, S. Venkatramanan, P. Butler, Andrew Farabow, N. Muralidhar, Naren Ramakrishnan, Carrie Reed, M. Biggerstaff, R. Borchering
year: 2023
tldr: Averaging across all forecast targets, the FluSight ensemble was the 2nd most accurate model measured by WIS in 2021-22 and the 5th most accurate in the 2022-23 season and most component models degraded over longer forecast horizons and during periods of rapid change.
abstract: Accurate forecasts can enable more effective public health responses during seasonal influenza epidemics. Forecasting teams were asked to provide national and jurisdiction-specific probabilistic predictions of weekly confirmed influenza hospital admissions for one through four weeks ahead for the 2021-22 and 2022-23 influenza seasons. Across both seasons, 26 teams submitted forecasts, with the submitting teams varying between seasons. Forecast skill was evaluated using the Weighted Interval Score (WIS), relative WIS, and coverage. Six out of 23 models outperformed the baseline model across forecast weeks and locations in 2021-22 and 12 out of 18 models in 2022-23. Averaging across all forecast targets, the FluSight ensemble was the 2nd most accurate model measured by WIS in 2021-22 and the 5th most accurate in the 2022-23 season. Forecast skill and 95% coverage for the FluSight ensemble and most component models degraded over longer forecast horizons and during periods of rapid change. Current influenza forecasting efforts help inform situational awareness, but research is needed to address limitations, including decreased performance during periods of changing epidemic dynamics.
