publication venue: arXiv.org
title: MusicLDM: Enhancing Novelty in Text-to-Music Generation Using Beat-Synchronous Mixup Strategies
authors: K. Chen, Yusong Wu, Haohe Liu, Marianna Nezhurina, Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick, S. Dubnov
year: 2023
tldr: A state-of-the-art text-to-music model that adapts Stable Diffusion and AudioLDM architectures to the music domain is constructed and two different mixup strategies for data augmentation are proposed: beat-synchronous audio mixup and beat- Synchronous latent mixup, which recombine training audio directly or via a latent embeddings space, respectively.
abstract: Diffusion models have shown promising results in cross-modal generation tasks, including text-to-image and text-to-audio generation. However, generating music, as a special type of audio, presents unique challenges due to limited availability of music data and sensitive issues related to copyright and plagiarism. In this paper, to tackle these challenges, we first construct a state-of-the-art text-to-music model, MusicLDM, that adapts Stable Diffusion and AudioLDM architectures to the music domain. We achieve this by retraining the contrastive language-audio pretraining model (CLAP) and the Hifi-GAN vocoder, as components of MusicLDM, on a collection of music data samples. Then, to address the limitations of training data and to avoid plagiarism, we leverage a beat tracking model and propose two different mixup strategies for data augmentation: beat-synchronous audio mixup and beat-synchronous latent mixup, which recombine training audio directly or via a latent embeddings space, respectively. Such mixup strategies encourage the model to interpolate between musical training samples and generate new music within the convex hull of the training data, making the generated music more diverse while still staying faithful to the corresponding style. In addition to popular evaluation metrics, we design several new evaluation metrics based on CLAP score to demonstrate that our proposed MusicLDM and beat-synchronous mixup strategies improve both the quality and novelty of generated music, as well as the correspondence between input text and generated music.
